[00:00:00] Yeah, there’s JD.

[00:00:07] Blessings. Blessings. Blessings. What’s up, Pastor K? Top of the morning to you, sir.

[00:00:16] Yeah, it is one early morning. Yeah. Praise the Lord. Amped excellent. Glad to be here.

[00:00:26] Pumped, got me my Bible ready, so I’m really excited for this. So let’s get into it. Have we prayed? You know what we should do? Should probably wait like five minutes for.

[00:00:39] More people to join before we start.

[00:00:46] Can I open up for us in prayer? Is that cool? Yeah, awesome. Thank you, Heavenly Father, for this beautiful opportunity. Lord Jesus Christ, we come before you now and we thank you for each and every single one of our brothers.

[00:01:03] And sisters, their families, their lives. Lord, we thank you for what you have started in each and every single one of us. Lord Jesus, we ask that this study, as we move through this epistle of Hebrews, will open up hearts, will open. Up eyes to the finished work of Jesus Christ, the final sacrifice of the. Blood spilt by our Lord and Savior.

[00:01:30] And we thank you Lord, that you guide our beloved Pastor Kenny, our brother. In the faith, as he goes through. The study, that minds are opened up, that eyes are opened up, Lord, and that hearts are softened. Thank you for, again, thank you for the finished work on the cross. Thank you for paying the ultimate price.

[00:01:52] For us to be free, for us to become children of the living God. We thank you for this. We thank you for the finished work that you have begun and will continue to do in our lives. Lord, I thank you for each and every single one of my brothers and sisters who have been dedicated and working on this app and all the new. Members that have been joining, Lord, that.

[00:02:15] You will send the right people to the study and that they will grow. And we thank you that Your word never returns unto you void, that it accomplishes everything that you set it out to accomplish. And we thank you, Father God, for this opportunity again. We thank you for the roofs of our heads, the ability to have cell phones and Internet, and this app, which has brought so many Christians together from across the globe. And we thank you Lord, that we are able to break bread in Your name and that we are able to share Your Word.

[00:02:48] In Jesus mighty name we pray. Amen and amen. Amen. Thank you. JD.

[00:02:57] Well, I want to get started. I’ll mute. I want to get started with this. And just maybe for about five minutes. Here, just sort of give you a.

[00:03:10] Start of what we’re going to be doing and maybe a little bit about myself. I know many of you don’t know. Me, not that that really matters, but just I’m a pastor at a small. Church and I’ve been saved since I was six years old, for about 55. Years now, and have studied God’s word since a teenager.

[00:03:32] I was in a Christian school and. In the early 90s answered the call to go into ministry of some sort. And God’s been working with me with. Many different things and been through the school hard knocks. And basically, I just love to study.

[00:03:51] God’s word and to dig deeper and deeper into it to have better understanding of scriptures. And I’ve been praying about this class for a while. I actually thought about doing it on. TikTok but with all the distractions and. Stuff on TikTok and or whatever, for some reason Lord never gave me the.

[00:04:09] Liberty to do it. And so I discussed it with JD and prayed about it doing it on here. And it just sort of came together. So I’m glad that each of you. Have decided to join.

[00:04:24] As I teach now, I like to ask questions. I don’t know how well that will. Work on here, but typically when I. Teach classes, especially in an open forum. Like this if they have a question.

[00:04:38] Put it in the comments or whatever. And I’ll try to address them. But I will say this I don’t know everything. I asked JD. To join us when he could and I know it’s really early for him.

[00:04:52] We may work on a time change. We can discuss at the end of. The chat that something might be better for everybody. But with JD. Here, it reminds me of if, you know, Jerry Clower told a story about.

[00:05:06] A professor of an oil company that. Gave just a spectacular speech on oil and all of its properties and all this stuff go all over the country given standing ovations. And he had a chauffeur that drove. Him around one day. The chauffeur asked him, says, you know.

[00:05:25] Professor, I can do that speech as good as you can. I’ve heard it so many times, I’ve memorized it. I don’t know why you making so. Much money and I’m not making what you are. And the professor says, Well, I’ll tell you what.

[00:05:36] The next town, they don’t know me. You can do the speech and I’ll be the chauffeur. Sure enough, the man gives a speech, standing ovation crowd goes crazy over it. He gets done with it. The president of the college stands up and says we have a few minutes for questions.

[00:05:54] So then the chauffeur, who is acting as a professor starts to panic a little. But the man stands up in the. Back and he asks the question. Says, professor, if a dinosaur died 2 billion years ago and had roughly 6000ft. Of Earth on top of him and.

[00:06:10] They were drilling through his carcass what. Would be the PH of the soil. Around him and the name of the. Stratosphere in which he would exist? Well, the chauffeur just there’s no way.

[00:06:23] He could answer that. And he said, Buddy, come up just. Real quickly and says that is the. Simplest question I have ever I can’t even believe you would ask me such a simple question. He said, to show you how simple.

[00:06:34] It is, I’ll let my chauffeur in. The back answer your question. So with that said, JD. Is my chauffeur. If I can’t answer it, I’m sure he can.

[00:06:45] All right? So I’m not going to claim to. Know everything on here but I do. Want your input and your questions. So with that said, we’ll get started.

[00:06:56] I’ll do a disclaimer that if you. Can’T tell already I’m from the south. I tend to stock slow. I tend to say, bless your heart. And I hope you all know that.

[00:07:06] Can mean several different things in the south. So I do like to use a little bit of humor as I teach. So if you don’t take it as humor, then just put it in the chat and ask me what I meant. But with all that said, let’s dive. Into Hebrews, if you are ready.

[00:07:26] First of all, I guess I love the book of Hebrews. There are many who say that we shouldn’t even study it. It’s almost like the Book of Revelation. So hard to understand and so difficult. But that is why the Scripture tells us to study to show Thyself approved unto God and a workman that needed not to be ashamed.

[00:07:52] Rightly. Vivid in the word of truth. So Hebrews, if you’ll understand the context. Why it was written, who it was. Written to, what the setting of it.

[00:08:02] If you get all that and the. Theme of it, it is not so difficult to understand. And it really clarifies. A lot of there are probably in. Scripture some of the most difficult passages.

[00:08:15] Of scriptures are in Hebrews and people really get stumbled up, stumble over them. And misinterpret them because they don’t understand what the book of Hebrews is about and all the rest. So we’ll just consider that. I would ask you to consider as. We study, maybe just put aside all.

[00:08:40] That you’ve ever been taught. Not that I’m right, but I just want us all to have an open. Mind to this because you may hear. Some things that you haven’t heard explained. In this way and we’ll discuss those.

[00:08:53] And be sure everybody has a good understanding. So many consider that this book was written by Paul of the early Church.

[00:09:10] I’m not so sure there was many. That Alexander of Clement excuse me, of Alexander he was a theologian in the late second and third centuries believed that Paul had something to do with the writings, whether he wrote it with his own hand or not. That he may have had something to do to it. Maybe Luke wrote it down for him or whatever. There’s a lot of argument over who.

[00:09:38] The author is that was written, best. We can tell, roughly around 63 to 65 Ad. Because in the writings of Hebrews we. Understand that sacrifices were probably or more. Than likely still going on and being made.

[00:09:57] So it was before the Temple was. Destroyed in 70 Ad. Getting back to this author, whoever he. Was, was well educated, well versed in the Jewish customs, probably even a convert. For from Judaism to Christianity.

[00:10:17] Like I said, many think it was Apaul, or it could have been Barnabas. It could have been Clement. I kind of lean toward Apollos, if you understand who Apollos is. He was very well versed, he was. Very educated, very eloquent in speech, as.

[00:10:34] We see in the Book of Acts. And he was a very close companion with these, with Paul in a lot of his writings. But I would suggest to you that. Does it really matter who read it? Because God is the author, it is God’s word to us, and he makes it very clear to us that what.

[00:11:01] He wants us to know, we see in the very first few verses. But before we get to those verses. I want to give you a little. Bit of the history. I want you as you study the Book of Hebrews, or as we go.

[00:11:13] Through this, I want you to just.

[00:11:17] Put in your mind that you are. A Jewish reader or listener of the Book of Hebrews. And for roughly 4000 years it has. Been taught to you that you are. To offer a blood sacrifice for the remission of sin.

[00:11:34] We see this all the way back. Even to Adam and Eve. But Abel offered a blood sacrifice, noah. Offered a blood sacrifice, the Father of. Israel, Abraham, offered a blood sacrifice.

[00:11:48] And then Moses came and offered blood sacrifices. And through him the Ten Commandments were given. God gave him the Ten Commandments on. Mount Sinai, and he also gave them the blueprint, as I call it, to the tabernacle of the place where God. Would tabernacle among his people, he would dwell with his people.

[00:12:12] And it was actually the first organized worship that God set up through Moses, where there was blood sacrifices. But we see that blood sacrifices even go further back, I believe all the way to Adam and Eve. In their first sin, god shed blood. To cover their sinfulness. So it was blood that would cover sin.

[00:12:38] A lot of people ask, why is it got to be blood? Why is it got to be that? You take that up with God. God said so. I have many reasons for that.

[00:12:48] I believe that it is. But ultimately it boils down to that’s the way God designed it. And so for roughly 4000 years, these. Jewish readers of Hebrews have been known. Of a blood sacrifice of temple worship.

[00:13:06] And the law and all these things. And now they’ve come to the New. Testament where they are all of a. Sudden having to change all this. It is changing from what they knew.

[00:13:19] For 4000 years to what Christ did. On the cross and his finished work on the cross. Now, I’m of a church and I. Know that people by nature do not. Accept change very well.

[00:13:35] There’s a story of the church one time wanted to move the piano from the right side of the stage to. The left side of the stage, and. It about split the church. Well, the pastor decided, hey, let’s just move it six inches every week until it’s on the left side. And once they did, nobody knew the difference.

[00:13:52] So change doesn’t come very well or very easily with people. And this was the same thing that. Was going on with these Hebrews that. This letter was written to. They had been accustomed to this for so many years, brought down by their fathers.

[00:14:09] And so the writer of Hebrews addresses this. So the setting of it is there. Were Jews still struggling with the gospel of grace and continuing in temple worship, with its sacrificial system and in keeping the law. We see this in Acts 15 five. We see it.

[00:14:34] I’m a lost for word. The council came together excuse me that. Rose up to discuss should the Gentiles be circumcised? And one of the Pharisees stood up. It says in verse five, but there.

[00:14:49] Rose up a certain sect of the Pharisees which believed, saying now note that. Which believed that it was needful to. Circumcise them, the Gentiles, to command them to keep the law of Moses. And now therefore, why tempt ye God. And put a yoke upon their neck?

[00:15:09] Well, and then Peter gets up and. Answers in verse ten and says, now. Therefore, why tempt ye God, and put a yoke upon the neck of the disciples which neither our fathers nor we were able to bear? That is a great answer there to the Law. Do we keep the Law today?

[00:15:27] Are we under the Old Testament law? Peter answers that question right there in verse ten. Why are we going to put this. Yoke or this burden on people that. We know we couldn’t do to start with?

[00:15:41] And so we see here the struggle. Is what my point is in the setting with the Gospel of grace, but continuing in the temple worship. And then there’ll be many times in our study through Hebrews here that I. Will refer to Galatians, because the Galatians. Were having the same problem.

[00:16:02] We see in Galatians three, where Paul. Is talking to the people of Galatia and says, o foolish Galatians, who hath beweached you that you should not obey. The truth before whose eyes Jesus Christ. Have been evidently set forth? Crucified among you?

[00:16:20] This only would I learn of you, receive you the spirits by the works. Of the Law, or by the hearing of faith?

[00:16:30] Are you so foolish, having begun in the Spirit? Are you now perfected by the flesh? Have you suffered so many things in vain? If it yet be in vain. For therefore that ministereth to you the Spirit and worketh miracles among you death eat by the works of the Law, or by the hearing of faith.

[00:16:50] So once again we see the struggle between these new believers and going back and forth between. Are we still under the law? Should we still do sacrifices? And Paul would go around preaching the gospel of grace. For by grace are you saved through.

[00:17:06] Faith, not of works. It’s only through the work of Jesus. Christ on the cross. Then these judaizers would come behind them. And say, yeah, all that that Paul.

[00:17:16] Is preaching is good and what Jesus did is great and we are saved by grace. But you need to keep the law. And this is what Paul is addressing. Here to the church of Galatia and. Working out and then explaining to them those things.

[00:17:31] So we see here the setting of it, of what may be going on. And I think the same issue is trying to be resolved through the writer. Of Hebrews to the people, to the Hebrew people. So basically what the book of Hebrews. Is about is you Hebrews, stop acting like Hebrews and act like Christians, act.

[00:17:58] Like Christ followers, not Hebrews. And this would have been very difficult, as I said, for them, because they’d been roughly 4000 years. So now the context of Hebrews to. Me is beautifully written. And I hope all of you understand that Hebrews had no chapters.

[00:18:18] Well, the whole Bible had no chapters, no verses. They were written in letter form. And if I’m not a very good English person, but in letters you have an opening statement, you have an opening paragraph, you have the body of the letter and then you have the closing statement of the letter. It is the same thing with the book of Hebrews. So we’re going to study some of.

[00:18:42] This and when we get to chapters five and six and even eight and. Ten, I may skip a little bit to tie it together to explain what he’s talking about in that paragraph. So the context of Hebrews would be then the superiority of Jesus Christ and. The salvation he gives over the Hebrew religious system. All right, it’s a better is mentioned.

[00:19:16] Seven times in Scriptures. Six of those times are in the book of Hebrews. Christ is superior, Christ is better. Hebrews 722, by so much was Jesus made a surety of the better testament. We see that if you’re taking notes, if you want to do that, 719 refers to a better way.

[00:19:39] Eight, six refers to a better way. 911 through 14 talks about a better way of ministry. 1034 and 1135 all refer to a more excellent or a better way through Jesus Christ. And we’ll talk about those more and. I’ll point them out when we come to them.

[00:20:04] But it was a more excellent ministry we see in 86. But now hath he obtained a more excellent ministry by how much? Also he is the mediator of a better covenant which was established upon better promises. So this is what the context or. The theme to me of Hebrews would.

[00:20:30] Be is Christ is enough. The superiority of Jesus Christ over all things. So everybody got that? Got any comments? I may stop from time to time.

[00:20:45] And make sure we’re all caught up and ready to go. We’re going to dive into verse one. And I really would like to I. Don’T know that it’s going to happen at this point. The first night I knew was going.

[00:20:58] To be tough because of all the. Opening statements and to get the context. And the setting and just a little. Bit of the history. But my goal was to get through chapter two tonight.

[00:21:10] But we’ll go as the Lord leads us. Would that be all right? So let’s dive into verse one. And again, I want you all feedback, honest feedback after this class. Is it too much?

[00:21:25] Not enough? Whatever. But to me, God in the King James, it starts out God comma. That means rest stop. So.

[00:21:38] Let me ask that real quick. Good question. What do most of you use the King James ESV? What would you rather I read from?

[00:21:49] And while you’re typing that, I will tell you. I’ll read from most anything. There are some that I just stay away from. But I will refer to the King James a lot. That is what I’ve learned to memorize and what I do.

[00:22:10] So I like the King James. The ESV starts out long ago. At many times in many ways, God spoke to our fathers by the prophets. But I like the King James where. It just starts out God.

[00:22:26] And you could stop right there and probably talk for 15 or 20 minutes. But I won’t do that to you. But in this God theos, it’s a title for God. This is the Triune, god the Father, God the Son and God the Holy. Spirit, all in agreement of the plan.

[00:22:45] From the very beginning. This is the Alpha and Omega mega, the beginning and the end. He’s undeniable, eternal, self sustaining God. And it all began with God. It is all God’s plan, all God’s.

[00:23:04] Purpose in all his time, for all of his glory. So you start out with God who. In sundry times and in divers manner speak in times past unto the fathers by the prophets. So what is that verse is telling us? Well, let me go ahead and read verse two.

[00:23:23] Hath in these last days spoken unto. Us by his Son whom hath appointed heir of all things, by whom also. He made the worlds let me look. Back and a lot of you saying. King James ESV, I’ll try my best.

[00:23:43] Maybe to do looks like a lot of your ESV. Maybe I’ll do. King James and ESV here. But what these first two verses say this long ago in the ESV, in. Many ways God spoke to her from.

[00:23:59] The beginning of time. God has been revealing himself to us from the fall of man. It has been God’s purpose, God’s plan. From the very beginning to bring us. Back to Himself in a relationship with Him.

[00:24:17] And this is God’s plan that he spoke through our fathers, through the prophets or the father Abraham to Jacob, Isaac, Moses. If you’re an Israelite and you’re reading this you very much understand what the. Writer is saying here when he says. Our fathers you automatically think of Abraham. And Isaac and Jacob and Moses and.

[00:24:41] All the prophets that have told us things. Now they didn’t quite understand, I don’t think at the time that it was. God Himself who would come, it was God’s Son would come and die for the sins of the world. It was God’s Son that will rise from the grave. They didn’t quite understand that.

[00:25:03] So we see and JD making tell. Me that I forget the fancy name. For the progressiveness of the gospel that was being given from the Genesis all the way up to will. Christ came, god continually gave them little by little, more by Lord, little by. Little more by more his plan of.

[00:25:24] Redemption for all of mankind. And it began with the fathers and the prophets. So hath in these last days or. The ESB but in these last days he has spoken to us by His Son whom he appointed the heir of all things. So it began God speaking to the fathers, to the prophets and now in these last days he is revealing Himself through His Son Jesus Christ.

[00:25:56] So this back up just maybe a little bit. Divers manners is just many different ways, many different times in sundry times and divers manners was just in many different ways that God revealed his plan little by little to mankind. There we go. Progressive revelation. Thank you Chris.

[00:26:20] From Genesis to the time of Christ and then even after that we see that the disciple didn’t even fully understand until pentecost it appeared because when Jesus was going back, returning back to heaven after in his ascension they asked Him are you going to set up your kingdom now? So they still didn’t quite understand even at that point until they were indwelt by the Holy Spirit. So that progressive revelation. Thank you sir. That’s what that is.

[00:26:53] So we see that throughout scripture and. We see that in our own personal lives. I mean I read things in the Bible for years and years and years and just in the last few months I saw some things in the first chapter of Ephesians that just blew me away. It was just awesome that well I’ll. Just tell you because I won’t leave you hanging.

[00:27:14] But in short, I know we’re not. Ephesians but when I saw that we. Look for God, we look for the inheritance that we have in Christ and all that God has to offer us in heaven. And then if you read on down the next few verses it says that we are his inheritance.

[00:27:35] That blew me away that Jesus looks at me as an inheritance.

[00:27:44] That hit me so hard just a few months ago. And I’m sorry, I get a little emotional sometimes. I cried a Hallmark card. But anyway.

[00:27:57] God reveals that that’s that. Revelation that God reveals to us. And I’ve read those chapters and those. Verses for many, many years, but God. Revealed something new to me in that.

[00:28:11] That just knocked me off my feet. To think that he would think that I am his inheritance. I’m so unworthy of to be called that. But I’ll digress and get back to our study. Through the prophets he sent this progressive.

[00:28:26] Revelation and in the last days has. Spoken to us by His Son. We see that in Matthew 21 33. Through 46, the parable of the householder. Who leased out his vineyard to a husband.

[00:28:39] And when the harvest was ready, he sent his servant, that the husband then beat and stoned and killed. So he sent more servants and they. Killed those servants and did the same to them. We see that this parable that Jesus is telling. And then verse 37 of Matthew 21, it says then the householder sent His Son, which the husband killed, the householder.

[00:29:07] Is Israel, and God is the husband. Who sent His Son to reveal God to us in the flesh. John One one through 114 god became flesh and dwelt among us, and we beheld his glory in His Son. So in these last days, he’s spoken to us in His Son. And the Father has willed everything to the Son.

[00:29:37] He is the heir of all things, even us.

[00:29:45] He’s saying it when Paul wrote to the Church of the Ephesus in chapter one, that the eyes of your understanding be enlightened, that you may know what is the hope of his calling and the riches of the glory of his inheritance. There’s my verse in the saints.

[00:30:03] So we just see that the importance of what the Son is doing to do the will of the Father, to inherit all things, to reveal who the Father is and what great love he has for us in that. So in this too, in this second verse, he said he’s talking to these Jewish listeners again, remember that by whom also he made the world. So Jesus was the Creator of all things. And to get that in my little simple mind, I have done a lot of building in my life and work, and I look as the Father is. The architect, Jesus is the contractor, and.

[00:30:47] The Spirit is the carpenter or the hands on that just makes it happen. Now, you might not agree with that scenario, but that helps me understand how. A triune God, God the Father’s, Gun. And Holy Spirit all worked in all. Of creation, and Jesus was the Creator.

[00:31:08] Of all those things. It says here, by the world with all was made. So if there’s any questions that come up and I miss that somebody helped. Me here, but I’m trying to redo different things and talk, and it’s hard for me to chew gum and talk at the same time. So verse three, let me go to the ESV.

[00:31:29] He is the radiant of the glory. Of God, the exact imprint of his. Nature, and he upholds the universe by the world word of his power. After making purifications for sinned, he set down at the right hand of the majesty on high. Jesus is the brightness of the glory, the expressed image of God.

[00:31:56] We see in Jesus Christ everything God wants you to know about Himself. We see it in the person of Jesus Christ. So as this writer is writing to these Hebrews Israelites who rejected Jesus, you. Got to keep in mind we’re all Hebrews sitting here tonight, and we’re reading this letter that this writer is writing to us, trying to understand what is going on in our world. First we see that God started and he spoke to the fathers and the prophets now revealed to His Son.

[00:32:32] And in His Son is the exact expression of God and who he is to us. So Colossians 115 tells us that Jesus. Who is the image of an invisible God, the firstborn of every creature, firstborn here refers not to time, but status of importance. Christ is overall, that’s what it’s talking about, the first born, those who argue. That we’ll get into the beguetz and.

[00:33:06] All that stuff in a little bit here, hopefully. But the first born is not talking about first born in time, but he is God, the Father, then God to Son. That’s his order of importance in all. Of creation, from all eternity past. John 14 nine.

[00:33:26] Jesus says, if you’ve seen me, you’ve seen the Father. Here you see that by Himself purged our sins alone, as a high priest. Did once a year. So when he says that he had purged our sins, that would been a. Key statement that these Hebrews would have understand because they were very familiar with.

[00:33:51] Going to a high priest for the. Forgiveness or sins or for the covering of sin through the shedding of bloods and lambs and goats and bulls and all that. So he’s appealing to that audience still. And he makes this statement here that. Alone, as the high priest did once.

[00:34:09] A year by himself, when the high priest would make the sacrifice at the. Brazen altar, then he would wash it. The golden of the broad. Labor where he would wash his hands and feet go into the holy of place where the lampstand and table show. Bread and the altar of incense is.

[00:34:28] And then through the veil into the holy of holies. But only can you go once a year by blood. Now I’m getting a little ahead of myself. We’ll talk about that more later on. But if you understand the tabernacle and.

[00:34:42] How all that works and all that, the. Duties of the high priest. It will very much help you understand. Hebrews. But we’ll talk about that more and make that more clear.

[00:34:55] But he could only go into the. Holies of holies once a year by himself with the blood and apply it. On the mercy seat. So he applies already, saying here that. By himself as a high priest, jesus.

[00:35:11] Went into the holy of holies and purged our sins before God. And then he says something very interesting that this would have made Hebrew readers scratch their head. It says here and then he set. Down at the majesty on high of. All the furniture in the tabernacle.

[00:35:34] God gave exact dimensions, everything that should be there, what it should be made. Out of, precisely every detail, with the. Exception of one piece of furniture, was the labor. And we may talk about that more what that means, but in all of. That, nowhere in this tabernacle was a.

[00:35:55] Seat because the work was never done. The high priest never finished his work because the blood of bulls and lambs. And goats could never take away sin. But when Jesus did it, he sat down. That means the work is finished, it’s done, it’s over.

[00:36:14] He sat down. And these Hebrew readers that would see. This would say, we’ve never had a. High priest that could ever sit down. So we see this as the opening statement of the book of Hebrews.

[00:36:29] He’s already thrown us a lot of. Meat, a lot of things that we. Could probably spend this whole lesson on, these first three verses. But I’ll try to keep moving on so we get through this in a year or two. I’m just kidding.

[00:36:43] We’ll get through this as quickly as possible. It’s so good, man, I’m so pumped for this study and everybody that’s taken the time to be here. I’m not going to be long, but I just want to make a solid point on everything, on the back of everything our beloved brother has just said. But the very first three verses we. See, it debunks every single person that.

[00:37:10] We see on TikTok saying that they spoke to Jesus and they saw Jesus and they got a word from God. And this is a word for and especially those videos. I don’t know who this word is for, but if you’re watching this video, then this word is for you. And at the end of the day, I’m not knocking those videos, the videos. Sometimes the word is good, but it’s not necessary to say, I don’t know who this word is for.

[00:37:31] But what we see is that unequivocally. Very clearly that Jesus Christ is, as Kenny has just so delightfully put down for us, is he sat down, it is finished. So there are no more prophets receiving additional word from God. And this is ultimately when I see people that speak like this on social media, then I’m immediately put back and I’m like that person should go get into Hebrews. Like Kenny said, a lot of people avoid the book of Hebrews because they’ve been given false information about who it’s to and what it’s about and how it applies.

[00:38:14] But the book of Hebrews has got tremendous amounts of meat. And as we see from the very first few verses that God now speaks through His Son, who he has appointed heir of all things, again, what we see is the triune nature of God, which is why we are inherently trinitarian. If you’re a Bible believer, you see the Trinity throughout Scripture and you’re going to see it even more so in the book of Hebrews. Again, as we see the final sacrifice being given as Christ Jesus and he is the preeminence, he is. And as Kenny also mentioned, better, great.

[00:38:54] It’s used so many times in the book of Hebrews from chapter one all the way through chapter 13, we see the words better and great pop up several times. So the reason I hopped on was just to ask you guys this warning. Again, when you see people making these. Claims that they’ve received additional revelation from. God, this is where you point them to say that’s no longer how God operates.

[00:39:25] God has spoken in later, it says there at sundry times in diverse manners, spoke in times past. It’s so clear that he spoke through prophets, to the fathers, through the prophets, but in these last days, he speaks through His Son Jesus Christ. So I just wanted to add that. Anyway, awesome, Kenny, keep going. Thank you, sir.

[00:39:50] Yeah, I meant to hit on a. Couple of things there, but in the book of Hebrews to me, you’ve got verses one through nine that really lay it out and chapter or excuse me, chapters one through nine that really lay it out and bring up a lot of good me. But then chapter ten is the grand finale. Well, you could say that from our fathers and the prophets, but in these last days, the grand finale, he has revealed it all through His Son. And just touching on that, and I don’t want to pick on any particular.

[00:40:24] People, but those who would tell you. That we don’t read Hebrews, it wasn’t. Written to us and we don’t read. This book, it wasn’t written to us. See?

[00:40:34] It was written to these people. Well, I’ll tell you that if you. Go by that scenario, then no book. Of the Bible was written to you because every book of the Bible, Paul. Starts out corinthians to the church at Corinth, Galatians to the church at Galatia.

[00:40:51] To the church at Ephesus, we see all that. But these letters were written to these people. But man, there is so much meat in these things that applies to us. That’s why Scripture tells us all. Scripture is given by inspiration of God and it is good for our edification, it’s good for our learning.

[00:41:11] So we don’t exclude any books of. The Bible, god put them there all for his purpose, for his glory, for. Our understanding and edification. So with that said, now that we. See that it is all completed, as Jesus sat down at the right hand of the Father in his ultimate statement.

[00:41:32] Then he begins in verse four explaining. To these Hebrews now get your Hebrew thinking cap on again. What did you really put a lot of value or really hold strong of. Was what angel said throughout the Old Testament. You see, the angel of the Lord, they didn’t have an understanding that that may have been a Christophany, which means where Christ appeared in the Old Testament.

[00:42:01] But all they knew is this angel. Lord said something we better take heed, we better listen. They put angels, there was God and then there was angels. And that’s the way a lot of. These Hebrews understood things at the time.

[00:42:16] Again, progressive revelation. Now the writer goes in to explain. That Jesus is above the angels. So he says being made well, let me go, let me go to my ESB. I’m sorry, I got in my notes.

[00:42:32] The King James having become as a. Much superior there we go again to the angels, as the name he has. Inherited is more excellent than theirs. So being much better than the angels, Jesus is superior to them. As I said, the Jews, highly regarded angels.

[00:43:00] You see in Deuteronomy 33 two and he said the Lord came from Sinai. And rose up from Sharon share. Unto them he sent forth from Mount. I’m not very good with all these names. And he came with 10,000 of saints.

[00:43:20] From the right hand went a fiery law for them. So because of Deuteronomy 33, they understood that these host of angels, ten thousands of angels. And this 10,000 of saints is actually translated, the holy ones you probably see in some of your other manuscripts. The King James says saints, but it’s holy ones, these are angels. And so these Jews, highly regarded angels because they were there even at the.

[00:43:50] Giving of the law, as God with. His right hand wrote the law and stones of tablets, that these angels were there. And so they regarded them very highly and they believed that the angels even. Helped gave the law. And there are other religions today that highly regard angels.

[00:44:11] Angels are just messengers, as we will see. But the point is that he’s reading. In four is that Jesus is better than the angels. And then he goes on to make that point even further. For to which of the angels did God ever say you are my son, today I have begotten you or again I will be to him a father, and he shall be my son.

[00:44:38] Did God ever say that to any of the angels? He’s quoting Psalms 27. Now we’ll see in this study too, that there is a lot of scripture that is being quoted. So whoever this author was, was very. Well versed in the Old Testament, and.

[00:44:56] He quotes a lot of the Old. Testament as he goes through this to. Give these Hebrew listeners a better understanding. So the begotten here refers to a. Lot of people get hung up on that, and I’ll just stop there for.

[00:45:11] A minute to just help you have. A better understanding, because a lot of different people, and I hate to point out names, but you’ll hear that on TikTok. Oh, begotten. See, he was created that is not what that’s referring to. The begotten here refers to he is the first of the resurrection.

[00:45:31] In Acts 1332, we read and we declare unto you glad tidings, or the Gospel is what he’s referring to. How that the promise which was made unto our fathers, again appealing to the Jewish readers, our fathers being Abraham, Jacob. Isaac, god hath fulfilled the same unto us, unto us, their children, the descendants of those fathers. And as these excuse me. He hath raised up Jesus again and.

[00:46:08] Is also written a second psalm. Thou art my son, today I have begotten thee that means to bring forth out of the grave he’s making a reference to the grave we see in Romans One four and declared to be the Son of God with power according to the spirit of holiness by the. Resurrection from the dead. So that word there is even referring. To to bring him out the resurrection.

[00:46:39] To bring forth from you’ll see in. The next verse here the first begotten, the bringing of the first gotten into the world that’s the bringing forth out. Of the womb as Jesus was born. And to bring out of the grave to never see corruption again. So he is the first born, or.

[00:47:00] He is the begotten of God, of the resurrection. I hope that is clear if I explain that well enough. The begotten refers to a bringing forth. Like he is the only begotten Son. Of God given to Mary, brought forth out of the womb the first begotten of God to bring out of the grave, never to see corruption again.

[00:47:26] So I hope that makes that clear. And then verse six and again, when he brings the first born into the world, he says, let all God’s angels worship him. He’s driving home the point again that. All the angels are to worship him. Matthew 120 but why he through all these things?

[00:47:50] Behold, the angel of the Lord appeared. Unto him in a dream, saying, Joseph, thou Son of David, fear not to. Take Mary thy wife, for that which is conceived. The same word is begotten in her is of the Holy Ghost, and all. The angels are to worship him.

[00:48:10] We see in Luke 214 and other. References of First Peter 322 and Revelation 511 through 13. So everybody with me? Am I talking too fast? I’m not going to make it to chapter two.

[00:48:27] I’m sorry, but I really want you. To get the understanding. And it is so critical these first. Two chapters, or at least the first. Chapter, is really critical for us to.

[00:48:40] Get the understanding, the setting of Hebrews. So we know how to digest Hebrews and fully understand it. So.

[00:48:54] Psalm 97, let me look it up real quick.

[00:49:10] Confounded be all that all they that serve graven images, that boast themselves of idols, worship Him all you gods.

[00:49:28] That’S. In the King James maybe JD can elaborate for me in a minute, but of the angels he says, who make it? Let me go back to my ESB. I’m sorry. Of the angels he said, he makes his angels winds, and he ministers a flame of fire.

[00:49:50] He’s quoting Psalms 144 again, Psalms 19. One the heavens declare the glory of God, and the firminant shows forth his mercy. So basically what he’s saying here is. That the angels whom he maketh, he. Has made declare his glory.

[00:50:11] The ministers of the flame of fire, the righteousness, the holiness of God, the goodness of God we even see proclaimed. From the heavens, from all of creation declares that. And the angels are very much a part of that, because angels are messengers. Of God to declare who he is to all the world. But let me back up.

[00:50:38] But of the Son, he says, your. Throne, O God, is forever and ever a sepulchre of unrighteousness. Is the septicure of your uprightness not unrighteousness. That’d be a bad word to put there. The sepulchre of uprightness is the sepiker of your kingdom.

[00:50:57] You have loved righteousness and hated wickedness. Therefore God your God has anointed you with the oil of gladness beyond your companions. So what he’s quoting here again? Psalms 45, six or seven, god the. Father calls Jesus God in this.

[00:51:18] The writer is clearly in Psalms, is clearly identifying the eternal reign of the. Eternal Son of God, that Jesus is God and that he is above the angels. His reign would be righteousness and all evil would be removed by Him. Jesus Christ is reigning now in heaven and is seated at the right hand of the fathers we saw earlier in this, and Luke 133 could be a reference for you. And he shall reign over the house.

[00:51:50] Of Jacob forever, and of his kingdom. There shall be no end. So he’s comparing again, remember that Jesus is above the angels, higher than the angels. And then he goes on in these two verses and says that Jesus is God. He continues in verse ten and thou, Lord, in the beginning hast laid the.

[00:52:13] Foundations of the earth, and the heavens. Are the works of thy hands. They shall perish, but thou remainest, and. They shall wax old, but as doth the garment. I think I just ran that from.

[00:52:26] King James again, I’m sorry, but what. This basically saying is jesus is God from the very foundations of the world. He was there when all creation was done. Therefore he is higher than the angels. He exceeds the angels, as these Jewish readers would have put so much confidence in angels.

[00:52:48] And looking to angels, he’s saying, they’re beneath Jesus, the one you crucified, the. One you rejected, they are beneath him. And then he goes on to explain how Jesus is everlasting. He says, Let me go back to the ESB. Like a robe you will roll them, like a garment they will be changed.

[00:53:14] But you are the same and your. Years have no end. He’s talking about Christ being eternal. Going back and referring to verses ten through twelve refers to Psalms 100 and. 225 through 27 in Isaiah 34 four.

[00:53:37] And all the host of heaven shall be dissolved, and the heavens shall be rolled together as a scroll. And then I’ll skip ahead to a. Verse in Hebrews 13 eight jesus Christ the same yesterday, today and forever. So Jesus is God, Jesus is everlasting. Jesus is above the angels.

[00:53:59] Then he jumps back to the angels again. But to which of the angel and to which of the angels has ever, he said, sit at my right hand. Until I make the enemies your footstool again. Making as a defense lawyer or a prosecuting lawyer would make a case for something. So the writer of Hebrews is done.

[00:54:24] He’s laying down the groundwork for the case that he’s going to be presenting to them of how Jesus is enough. He’s superior to the angels. Are they not ministering spirits talking about the angels in verse 14 sent out to serve for the sake of those who are to inherit salvation? I don’t know if I said verse 13 is quoting Psalms 110. One, Jesus is higher than the angels.

[00:54:55] And in verse 14 he’s quoting Psalms. 100 and 320 the angels are ministering. Spirits who serve the Lord seated who serve the Lord around the throne, but. None of them are seated at the. Throne of God, at the right hand of God.

[00:55:13] He is superior to them. He has a place of honor and. Glory that the angels do not share, but they also minister to us who are the heirs of salvation through faith. I think Jesus is greater than the angels, just to sum it up. And this means that he’s also greater than the law which they believe the angels helped deliver.

[00:55:42] We’ll see that in this study, referring back to verse four, that the law that they still hold dear. Jesus was even greater than the law that was there when the angels when God revealed it. So Jesus is God. Jesus is the son of God. Jesus is Everlasting.

[00:56:03] And Jesus is above the angels. We see in the first chapter, and. I think we’re about out of time, really. The second chapter goes on to say. Even more, which is great, we’ll hit that next week.

[00:56:19] But I’ll just read therefore, we ought to give more earnest heed to the things which we’d heard lest any time. We should let them slip. For as the word spoken by the. Angels was steadfast and every transgression of disobedience received a just copense of reward. How shall we escape if we neglect so great a salvation which was first.

[00:56:49] Began to be spoken by the Lord. And was confirmed to us by them that hear it. So I’ll just read those three verses. To which whistle, as I call it. We’Ll cover them in depth next week.

[00:57:03] But tonight, for what I want you or what the writer wants us to understand in this first chapter jesus is God. Jesus is the creator of all things from everlasting to everlasting.

[00:57:17] He is superior to the angels. So I think I’ll just quit there. I know we got an extra four. Minutes, we can have some discussion. If you have any questions, comments, feel free.

[00:57:31] Then we’ll close out in prayer.

[00:57:38] Manika did bring it up in the chat, but all I was doing with Psalm 97 was just confirming what he says there again in verse six. And again, when he bringeth in the first begotten into the world, he says, and let all the angels of God worship him. Now, Psalms 97, verse seven says, worship him, all ye Gods. And what’s important there is to see. The text when we look at the.

[00:58:07] Translation, the word elohim there. So again, where we see Elohim is oftentimes used in Scripture, even for the angels. So the reference there is just a cross reference that the angels have been. Worshipping Jesus since the beginning. So the author is just trying to put that into perspective.

[00:58:27] For again, you’re putting yourself into the mind of the Hebrew. What we see when we hear the word deconstruction, often people look at it as a negative light, but what the author of Hebrews is trying to do is he’s trying to deconstruct the Jews from thinking earthly and starting to think more spiritual and look at the finished work of Jesus Christ. So this is oftentimes what we have to do with brothers and sisters who are in the faith but have been caught under false teaching. That is, Kenny mentioned earlier. We won’t go into the specific group on TikTok who do this, but anyone who says to you that certain Scripture.

[00:59:11] Isn’T for you today is 100% false, even Leviticus. We go through Leviticus and we see the laws of Leviticus so that we. Can understand grace more urgently, if I. Can put it that way. So we have a more fervent understanding for who Christ is and what Christ came to do.

[00:59:32] All of Scripture is for us. All of Scripture is to us. There is no such thing as no that’s not written to you. And I’ve even heard Christians say, I’m not going to read Revelation because I won’t be here. I’ll be in the Rapture and I’ll be gone.

[00:59:46] So I’m not bothered with reading Revelation. That’s just, quite frankly, an ignorant statement. To make. So again, if there are any questions on this first chapter, because there’s a lot of meat in here. But what we do see is that.

[01:00:02] The author is looking to establish who Christ is first and foremost, and why Christ is who he is. And ultimately, as he goes in, as. Kenny said, as we go through chapters. Two through ten, we see this deals specifically with doctrine. It’s only from ten to 13 we really see the guidance for Christian living and assistance for Christian living.

[01:00:33] But the first ten chapters are all about the doctrine of Christ Jesus and the finished work of Christ Jesus and the blood of Christ Jesus. So that’s why I was really pumped when Kenny said he’s going to do Hebrews, because, again, it’s not a book. That we spend enough time on, if. I can put it that way. And as you guys have seen from the very first chapter, there’s a lot to unpack.

[01:01:00] So if anyone does have any questions, then now’s the time to shoot. But absolutely awesome. Absolutely awesome. Kenny, I’m already pumped for next week. It was really good.

[01:01:16] Thank you, JD. I appreciate you being here. I hope I didn’t. It’s just an awesome book for us to understand and to just see all. That when we understand what Christ did.

[01:01:29] For us on the cross and his finished work that he did, and we see it so clearly in the book. Of Hebrews, it is just awesome to me.

[01:01:41] That’s all I want to say. It’s just awesome. I love the study of it and. To see what God has done through. Us, through His Son.

[01:01:51] Any questions? I hope, too, that now chapter two. And the rest of it may go a little bit quicker. We’ll have some slow parts, but I. Really just wanted to get this foundation.

[01:02:04] Set in stone, so to speak, in. Our cornerstone, Jesus Christ. How about that? To get that established. Amen.

[01:02:18] All right, the chauffeur is here, so. If you all got any questions, you. Need to ask them.

[01:02:26] Had a good giggle at that one. That was a cool story. Oh, man, that is so good. It would be awesome if we could record these studies, Natalie, but I’m not even sure if it’s possible. But that’s why we generally do give enough warning for when the studies will take place.

[01:02:47] And this was awesome. We had a very good turnout tonight. We had lots of people here. I was edified. Once again, always going through God’s word is a blessing.

[01:02:58] Waking up early and going straight into God’s word is an even bigger blessing because there’s no distractions. So it truly is really awesome. And yeah, definitely something I pray that I know you mentioned it earlier, but I pray that God does enable you to do, even if it’s just short videos on TikTok, on the study of Hebrews. Because again, I can’t put enough emphasis. On the fact that it’s an often overlooked book.

[01:03:32] And it’s really silly to do so. Because you really get reverence for who. Christ is and the finished work of Jesus and the blood that was shed.

[01:03:43] There’s just no other way. When we say we are saved by grace through faith in Christ Jesus, this book really emphasizes what that faith is and why that faith is. So, as I’ve said, oftentimes we as Christians are called, and this is the misconception that the atheists have. Most atheists think and believe that Christians have got blind faith, but we are not called to blind faith, we are called to reasonable faith. And this is why when we see verses like one Peter 315, where it says, always be ready to give an answer for the hope that is within you and why you are a Christian.

[01:04:24] This is why we study the Scriptures so that we can answer and reason with what we have been given by God. And there’s nothing left unanswered for anyone who has studied their Bible for some time, you will agree with what I’m saying, that the Scriptures have got absolutely every single answer that we seek in this life. And this is supposed to bring us comfort. And we find a lot of people seek comfort from words of knowledge and a word outside of the text. And this is why people get drawn to these prophetic ministries and these they call themselves fivefold ministries, where they have apostles and prophets in the church.

[01:05:10] And we see ultimately that it doesn’t last long. They do tend to fall away because the words and the promises that are given to them don’t carry any weight. When the Scriptures carry absolutely all the weight we need for our daily living, for any single problem that we might face, we have every single solution we could possibly need in the word of God. So just so blessed by this again and definitely looking forward to getting through the rest of this book with you. Guys and everyone who’s been here now.

[01:05:50] Now we know next week, please come back and let’s get through this together. Brother Kenny, thanks for that Bible study and using the magnifying glass on that. That was incredible.

[01:06:10] I enjoy expositional type studies and preaching and so I appreciate that. Thank you, sir. Praise the Lord for that. Let me close this in prayer and then I would like to ask you. All just a few questions maybe about.

[01:06:30] Our timing and stuff. So let’s close out in prayer and. Then if some of you need to. Go and do that, thank you JD for being here. Maybe you can get some rest, go.

[01:06:41] Back to sleep or something, but let. Me close out and we’ll have some discussion. Father, we just thank you for this time together to come with our brothers and sisters in Christ. And we just from all around the world, it’s just awesome to consider what. You’Re doing in and through your body of believers.

[01:07:02] We just thank you for the class tonight, for the leading of the Holy. Spirit to guide us. We pray that you just continue to lead us in all truth, to reveal your love story to us in the. Simplest and purest way. In Jesus name I pray.

[01:07:21] Amen.

[01:07:23] So I wanted to ask, is JD still in here?

[01:07:30] Wanted to ask if this time is good. I know it’s rough on JD. It’s like 01:00 or so in the. Morning for him and I told him. I can do it whenever.

[01:07:43] Saturday nights, usually I’m up till twelve. 01:00 anyway, preparing for Sunday, but making. Sure I got all my stuff together. All it means to me is I. Change my study for Sunday earlier in the day and then I’ll do this.

[01:08:00] So if we need to meet later to make it simpler on JD or. Some of you, let me know how you feel about that.

[01:08:10] Well, it doesn’t bother me at all, waking up. It’s a weekend, so doesn’t really faze me, so we don’t really have to move it. But yeah, if it’s not convenient for. Others, if more will join later on, then I would say let’s move it because the more the merrier. But if everyone’s good with this time.

[01:08:38] And this work for everyone, then don’t. Flip it just for me. I’m fine. I can get up. Okay.

[01:08:49] I just want to be easier. You’re getting older.

[01:08:54] Yeah, my kids keep me young. I’m messing with you.

[01:09:02] My son is busy. He’s decided that his new bedtime is in the last two weeks. He’s shifted from going to bed at 07:30 p.m. To he’s now going to bed at 930 10:00 p.m.. He’s just had a shift in his nap time, so he’s falling asleep at like three in the afternoon and then he sleeps until five and then he’s up until 10:00 p.m..

[01:09:26] So it’s all good. I’m not too faced, sounds like.

[01:09:38] Okay, well, for everyone, it seems like this is the good time, so we’ll carry on. We’ll keep it at this time because. If it’s working, let’s stick to it. Okay. All right.

[01:09:51] Just let me know if it gets to be too much on you. Like I said, I’m flexible, so I. Just want it to be good for everybody. Awesome. Thank you, brother.

[01:10:01] Thank you, brother.

[01:10:07] All right, go ahead. I’m sorry.

[01:10:15] That was absolutely awesome. And definitely going to just read through it again and it’s just such a blessing. Such a blessing. Again, just to confirm what you were saying, it’s the first time I heard people make claims like, yeah, well, that’s not written to you, so why are you reading that? And I was like, what?

[01:10:40] Wow.

[01:10:46] And this is a question I’ve asked. I’ve closed to a couple of guys who say that, and I’m like, can. You please show me the scripture that. Says all scripture is for us, but not all scripture is to us? Because.

[01:10:59] That’s the verse I’d like to read because that sounds like I suggested man made doctrine to me personally, where nowhere. In Scripture does it say, all Scripture. Is for you, but not to you. Because Second Timothy 316 is unequivocally clear that all Scripture is for us. So, yeah, that’s always tripped me up and I could never understand that one.

[01:11:28] But by God’s grace, we’ve seen a lot of people move away from that type of teaching, so praise Jesus for that and we just keep standing on this wall. For me, it’s just mind blowing how much is out there. And this again, why I said discernment isn’t knowing the difference between what’s right and wrong. It’s knowing the difference between what is. Right and what is almost right.

[01:11:59] And this is where we have to keep ourselves sharp and stay in the word. So I know the rest. I mean, just thinking about the next nine chapters really gets me pumped because Hebrews is so good. It’s so good. Absolutely.

[01:12:21] Manika know who. Yeah, man.

[01:12:25] There is some really good. If you there’s really good meat coming. I can’t wait to get there. I mean, chapter two from verse five, the Preeminence of Christ.

[01:12:41] Chapter three, the superior to Moses, the book of Hebrews. And I know I hear what you’re saying about going back to Galatians so many times because it literally is a problem we still see. And then when you get to chapter seven and eight, superior to malchiside, superior to the Levitical system, better promises made on better foundations. It’s just so awesome that we’re doing this, because I know this especially for young Christians. If if I often look back and.

[01:13:20] I go, you know, if I’d if I’d studied the book of Hebrews when. I first came to the faith, I think it would have cleared up a. Lot of confusion early on, you know what I mean? Definitely.

[01:13:38] Hebrews has a lot of terminology that. We don’t understand, but they did. But we very much can glean from. It and understand the overall what he’s telling them and what we have in Christ. I think those who want to exclude.

[01:13:57] Certain books of the Bible, again, not being critical, but I’ve studied their theory or theology quite a bit, listened to. Them quite a bit. And it appears to me most of. The time that they say, well, that. Wasn’T written to us, are usually those.

[01:14:14] Passages of scripture that are most difficult to understand. And if I can’t understand them, I’m. Just going to say they’re not written to me. Now, there are some places in Scripture. That are obviously written about the Jews.

[01:14:30] In a certain time and what’s going to happen with them, and we need to understand that. But overall, we can use all Scripture for our edification in our learning.

[01:14:44] Especially if you’re working through the sunopics and you see that there are specific instances where Jesus Christ is talking to a specific audience and you got to look at the cultural context of what he’s saying and you can see that. But again, it’s not a question of it’s not to us. It’s still for us, for our edification. We still then have an understanding of what Christ was saying to them and why they missed it. Because ultimately, here’s the thing and what I say to people.

[01:15:17] If you become like Pauline, onlyism where you only focus on what Paul wrote, you do miss. And this is why I did a. Study before you joined the discord called the Gospel. Precisely. And that was a very good study because when we ignore the Gospels, we lose the kingship of Jesus Christ.

[01:15:38] If you ignore Hebrews, you lose the lordship of Jesus Christ.

[01:15:46] You get a lot of grace, which is not a bad thing. But ultimately we’ve seen the dangers of progressive Christianity as well as other hypergrace movements like Universalism, where ultimately everybody’s saved. Doesn’t really matter what you believe now, because they take passages from Colossians out of context, from thessalonians out of context, from two corinthians out of context. And if you haven’t studied the Gospels, then it’s easy to get what Paul is saying completely wrong. And we always point to the warning Peter gives us in two Peter, chapter three, where he says that they twist.

[01:16:29] The writings of Paul as they do. With the other Scriptures, to their own destruction. And again, I’m not bringing anyone salvation into question, but it is a question of sanctification. It is a question of if you are leading others, you might be leading them astray depending on the condition of their hearts. And a lot of people think when we say you have to preach, we are called to expository preaching, where we preach the full counsel of God and everything, the law of God, everything that God has given us.

[01:17:07] I’ve met many, many Christians who’ve never read through the Exodus. They’ve never read through Leviticus, they’ve never read Deuteronomy because of the same thing, because they’ve told, well, Romans four says we’re not under law but under grace still doesn’t give you, you know, doesn’t. Give you, you know, permission to plead. The fifth or be ignorant of what is what is written there. Because again, the way you view Christ is if you’re going to pick and choose parts of Christ, because if we’re.

[01:17:41] Being honest, all of the Scriptures point to Jesus. And if you are reading all of the Scriptures, your reverence for Christ becomes mature, if I can put it that way. You’re refined in your reverence for who God is. And this is the problem where we see with people that are pulled into doctrines, where they nitpick and cherry pick scripture. And this is why ultimately we will.

[01:18:10] And I know I’ve seen you on Lives as well, where you don’t comment anything, but you sit there and you. Question, how did they get there?

[01:18:24] Alarm bells go off and you think for me to say to someone, well, Jesus wasn’t talking to you. Rather than giving an explanation of what Jesus meant in that parable or in that instance just telling someone. It’s kind of like when you were a kid, you are there to not speak. What was that old saying? Children are to be seen and not heard.

[01:18:53] Which is ultimately so false because if. We hear our children, we are able to educate and teach our children. And that’s kind of what that’s always. Just given me such a irks me. Because there’s many instances, especially if we go to the Gospel of Luke and we see how many times the Gentiles are mentioned throughout the Gospel of Luke, you kind of wonder why you would tell someone that’s of no relevance to you.

[01:19:26] Which just it’s disheartening. Disheartening because we know the Bible is for us in every sense, right? Even Paul says that all that happened. To the Jews was for our was. An example for us to learn from and to understand who God is.

[01:19:49] And all of the Old Testament to. Me is how God deals with man. And man hasn’t changed in 6000 years. So I could apply myself to even. Though it was written to the Jews.

[01:20:03] And what they were going on, I. Can still get the application of how. God wants me to be set apart for his purpose and what he’s done. For me on the cross and what a sinner. I learned all that even through the Old Testament.

[01:20:18] I did a study on the tabernacle. I actually built all the furniture life. Size and thought it years and years. Thought it several times. And it was through that that the whole Bible was opened up to me to understand what it was all about in my study and research of just the tabernacle.

[01:20:39] And then in that I began to understand Hebrews. Like I said, the whole Bible. It’s awesome just to think about and. To study and to know God. And it’s all there for our learning.

[01:20:53] And for our edification to know who he is.

[01:20:58] It’s just awesome. Absolutely. Amen. I agree with what Brian said. Those who don’t know the history are doomed to repeat it.

[01:21:08] Exactly. We see this unfortunately all the time. And that’s why I say I don’t make stitches and I don’t call people out and I don’t make videos because I’ve learned that everyone is at a certain stage or phase in their walk with Christ. And I know, I believe every single scripture. And when God says that he who began a good work in you will bring it to completion.

[01:21:39] I trust God’s word. So I’m not about running around correcting every single person because you need to get there. And ultimately I know you get there when you apply yourself and you seek God above all things. I mean, we just matthew six Matthew Matthew 536 33. Seek you first the kingdom and his righteousness and then the rest will be added.

[01:22:07] And I think.

[01:22:11] This is where a lot of people have strayed. We spend 10 hours watching TikTok and 20 minutes reading the Bible. And this is where you’ve got it wrong. You got to be 10 hours in. The Bible and 20 minutes on TikTok.

[01:22:28] And I often say to the people on Discord, take a break from TikTok, take a break from social media. Because if you don’t, you find yourself slipping into the flesh more and more because you’re watching so many different takes on something. And ultimately we have to be plugged in with a community like this where we can discuss the scripture, study the scripture together and grow from it. And doesn’t matter how many times we go through the book of Hebrews, every time we go through the book of Hebrews, something new comes to light. And you’re like, wow, I’ve read this passage so many times, but that’s just hit me differently.

[01:23:09] And this is the thing about when we get to what does Hebrews 412 tell us? That the word of God is sharper than any two edged sword. That’s not just a metaphor, this is a fact. Because it does. Going back on what we just discussed, rejecting certain scriptures and saying, well, that’s not to you or that’s not for you.

[01:23:36] And again, my opinion, I just believe that certain scriptures convict you and then rather than confront whatever is in you that needs to be purged from you, it’s easier to just go, well, that’s. Not to me, and that could be very dangerous. Right? I want to answer melissa asked a. Question here that I think Chris made.

[01:24:00] The statement exactly that everything in the tabernacle pointed to Christ. And I’ll try my best not to. Get into tabernacle, that we are going to discuss it some in our study of what all it meant. But every piece of furniture, the walls, the curtain, every part of it points. As a picture of Christ.

[01:24:20] They didn’t understand that. And then Melissa asked a question, I think, wasn’t it a place where they. Could talk to God? They could talk to God, but the purpose was where God tabernacled among them, god dwelt among them as the high. Priest would go into the holy of.

[01:24:39] Holies with the blood and apply it on the mercy seat. It says, the Shakina glory of God came down and filled the tabernacle. What an awesome place that would be. And that’s where I think we get today as Christians. We get in the presence of a holy God and the Holy Spirit begins to move.

[01:24:59] There is no better place on earth. And this is where God dwelled with his people. And it was all through what Christ did for us on the cross. The Brazen altar is the cross. The labor is the Bible, the cleansing word of God, the golden lampstands as we walk in the light of His Word.

[01:25:21] And he is the light of the world. The table of Show Bread is the place of Christian fellowship. And then the altar of incense is a place of worship and praise and prayer to God as we lift our petitions to Him all through the blood of Jesus Christ. And then we can, as we’ll read. Will come boldly to the throne of grace, or boldly.

[01:25:47] The high priest didn’t have to worry about going into the holy. There’s that myth of the rope and the bells and all that, because he’d get struck down if he had the blood. He was good, period. And he could come boldly into the holy of holies, into the presence of a holy God through the blood of Jesus and apply it on the mercy seat. So we’ll talk about that more in our study.

[01:26:09] But the tabernacle is a beautiful picture of our Christian walk. And many of you get many people. Not many of you, but many Christians get saved at the Brazen altar, and I call it fire insurance. They’re saved, they’re good, they’re not going. To hell, but they never go further.

[01:26:28] Through the studying His Word, and get into the fellowship of other believers in. The holy place and then be able. To just climb up into God the. Father’s lap and cry, Abba, Father. They miss all that glory if you.

[01:26:44] Just got fire insurance. That’s why we need to study and get in His Word. And God wants a relationship with us where he can meet with us and dwell among us. And we do that through the person of Jesus Christ and his finished work on the cross. I’m sorry, I’ll try not to preach it, y’all.

[01:27:02] I get a little fired up, too, sometimes. I love it, man. I absolutely love it. It’s so good. So good.

[01:27:08] Only preaches takes control, man.

[01:27:13] All the time as well. You just start talking about the goodness of Christ, and the more you do it, the more you just go on. That now it’s time. Like, yeah, this message, people, I love it so much, man. I love being preached at.

[01:27:30] I love it. Gets me pumped. Me pumped up. Now, don’t ever apologize for asking a question. That’s what we’re here for, for all.

[01:27:42] Of us to learn. Me, JD, everybody, we all work together and learn together because we don’t all know everything, but there are no dumb questions. If you got a question, ask it and we’ll do our best to answer it. Amen. That’s ultimately you hit the nail on the head.

[01:28:04] We don’t know everything but having all these brothers and sisters all over the world who we can lean in and study together and talk and look at that just by that first chapter, how much extra input and the cross references and where else it was mentioned and how we understand this and how they understood this again, all scripture. All scripture we know. I might have read something that Kenny hasn’t read or Kenny might have read something. And this is why we see it on the podcast. We see it when we go live.

[01:28:42] And I love it because the comments. People will add something to what I’ve. Said and I’m like, yes, 100%. That’s exactly what I’m saying. And the Greek definition of exhortation, I love this because it literally means to come along one another, come alongside one another.

[01:29:05] So when we exhort, this is what it means. And the picture it paints is me. Interlocking my arm, like when you do. Like a river dance or something and you interlock your arms. So this is the biblical form of exhortation.

[01:29:22] If you’re exhorting one of your brothers or sisters in Christ, you’re coming in next to them, you’re locking your arms and you are walking this road with them. It’s not a separation, but a unity. And we come together when we exhort. One another and we interlock our arms and we press toward the same mark. And this is what Paul literally explains to us in one Corinthians, chapter nine.

[01:29:47] We do not run like someone who runs with uncertainty. We do not fight like a boxer beating the air, but we make our bodies our slave so that when we have preached to others, we ourselves will not be disqualified for the price thereof. And what he means in the entirety there is when I’ve said something, one of my brothers and sisters can amplify what I’ve said, can add to what I’ve said. And this is how Paul constantly reminds us that we are of the same body. We’re one body in Christ.

[01:30:23] So why are we devouring one another? Why are we biting at each other when we should be exhorting one another, coming in together, interlocking our arms and saying, where is our goal? Where’s the finish line? And that’s where we’re pressing. That’s the mark that we are all pressing toward.

[01:30:39] And any biblical teacher, any pastor or preacher or evangelist or anyone who glorifies themselves more than they glorify Christ, that’s a red flag. If they’re pointing you, they’ve done. Or I or me, that’s a big red flag. And that’s where other brothers and sisters. Across will say to you, well, we.

[01:31:05] Not looking for glory. We’re looking for people to see Jesus for exactly who Jesus is. And before we started the study, we were just having a brief conversation on the mod chat. And I was saying, I watched a love the other day with this atheist. Who was absolutely destroying the Christians who.

[01:31:26] Came up into his box, but because they were trying to reason with personal testimony, they were trying to reason with emotions and feelings rather than going to the text and going to the text. And there’s a law in mathematics, a lot of you might not know this, but there’s a law in mathematics called proof by the opposite. And it’s a Latin phrase which I can never get right, but it means surrendering to absurdity. And proof by the opposite is that when we listen to some of their views, you have to point out how absurd the view is by simplifying the view of the Christian. And we show them that we believe in a God created universe because it’s logical.

[01:32:15] It’s way more illogical and erratic and crazy to believe in evolution than it is to believe that there is a Creator who created heaven and earth and everything on the earth and everything in the heavens and in the sea. Where if you show them this using logic again, using that rule, proof by the opposite, showing how absurd evolution is and theory thereof, that this proves the existence of God rather than trying to prove God by well, you don’t know what he’s done in my life. You know what I mean? That’s not going to work. It’s not going to work.

[01:32:51] That’s why we have the scriptures, right? Yeah. Good stuff. Good stuff. I digress.

[01:33:02] I love you all. I’m going to go back into bed. I’ll see you guys next week. But this week I will definitely be going back to my usual 07:30 P.m. Lives on TikTok from Monday.

[01:33:21] So I will see you guys there. Otherwise I will see you guys again next week. To everybody that has been here, what a blessing. Thank you again, Kenny, for offering up your time and doing this for us, brother. It’s an absolute blessing, absolute blessing to have you here and your wisdom and your love that you share with us is very much appreciated.

[01:33:43] And I’m edified. I’m edified.

[01:33:49] That’S all I want is people to see Jesus. And I thank you JD. For coming. I know this is I couldn’t do it. Once I go to sleep, I’m out.

[01:33:58] But anyway, then to think I have to get up and think, that would be something else. But anyway, thank you for coming and. I look forward to it.

[01:34:09] Let me know if that was too. Much or not enough. Any questions? Comments are always welcome. As we do this, I’m quite happy.

[01:34:20] With us going for 2 hours. If next week we want to push another hour, I’m quite happy to do that because it is so good. But again, you guys can all discuss it and let me know. But I think when we did the gospel precisely, we went 2 hours at a time. So 2 hours is fine by me.

[01:34:46] I think most people can handle 2 hours. So yeah, I think maybe next week. We go from we do 2 hours. And get more into the meat. Okay, so everybody agrees 2 hours is good.

[01:35:00] So maybe if you’re keen to do. 2 hours next week. Yeah, cool. I can talk about it all night. If you want to.

[01:35:13] Praise the Lord. Plus the southern accent is good. Man, I need to move out there.

[01:35:22] I want to go to Kenny’s church, man.

[01:35:27] Thank you, JD. God bless you.

[01:35:35] All right. Anybody else got anything they need to talk about? Clarify? I appreciate you all coming and hanging. Out and staying with us and had a good group tonight.

[01:35:47] If you enjoyed it, let others know. I think we’re going to have a. Good time in this study.

[01:35:57] It was good. I enjoyed it.

[01:36:04] Kenny, do you have any notes or anything?

[01:36:10] I sold that. Yeah, I do. You’re going to have to help me how to figure out how to get it on here. I could just take my outline kind. Of I’m not really an outline person.

[01:36:27] I put the verse and then I. Put my comments about it and some of it might make sense to you. Some of it. Or I can just try to do. An outline of the high points, whichever.

[01:36:38] Way you all would like it, whatever. Is easiest on you. But however you want to do it, I can get with you or somebody, whoever can get with you. And I’ll create a page for you in the depository like I have for the other teachers and stuff on here. And you can give it to whoever you need to one of us or whatever, and we can put it in the depository for you so you’ll have a running thing for your notes for each week or however you want to.

[01:37:15] Do it on that. Okay, yeah, I may do that and I’ll just maybe clean it up a little bit. Okay. Because I put a lot of little things in there just for me to help me remember. But I’ll try to clean it up.

[01:37:31] And make it where anybody who can. Read it can understand it. Okay, that’d be great. Yeah. We can’t really record on here.

[01:37:43] That’s more or less a safety concern and discord, doesn’t it’s? Something that they don’t permit or whatever, but notes and stuff like that. We do that. Right. Okay.

[01:38:09] Well that’s good. We’ll plan on 2 hours next week. We ought to be able to do. Probably two and three next week. Then we’ll do chapter two and 1 hour maybe.

[01:38:20] And then chapter three the next hour. Well, you said you don’t go to bed or twelve or 01:00. I say just open up the chapter two right now and let’s get started. All right, we could do that. I wanted to get into go ahead.

[01:38:42] I wanted to get into two because it is continuation of Jesus being supreme over the angels and their work and how Jesus works and stuff. But we’ll let them digest chapter one. And get all that in there and. Then we’ll dive in more some more next week. That’ll work.

[01:39:04] When it comes to Bible study, I think about Jesus and the woman at the well when the disciples got back and said, here’s your food, he’s like, I got food you don’t know about it’s the Bible study. I can sit here all night and do that. Right. Thank you, Jennifer. For joining us.

[01:39:35] Anybody else?

[01:39:54] My son in law is even in here at the top, right there. Clint okay. He keeps me straightened out. He’s actually, you and him would get along real well. He’s an It guy for Georgia Tech.

[01:40:11] I don’t know if you’ve ever heard of him. He’s out of my league. I can tell you that right now because I don’t know nothing like that.

[01:40:28] We always joke with each other, make sure we’re not here to commit any heresy. But he does a lot of my. Video stuff and keeps all that gun for me at the church. Does a really good job.

[01:40:43] He just joined today, didn’t he? Yeah. I told him that I’d be doing it and be praying for me about it and well, you want to come. Too, so he joins. Yeah.

[01:40:55] I thought I saw him earlier.

[01:41:04] Yeah. Don’t forget the study coming up Monday on the Gnostics. Yes, that’ll be a good thing. Mini Coed Bible study. It’s going to be nick and Monika are going to knock that out, and it should be pretty good.

[01:41:28] It’ll help you understand why, like, John. Dealt with Gnostics and Agnostics and things. Like that, and the judaizers and Agnostics. And Gnostics were a problem at that time. And it helps you understand why they.

[01:41:43] Wrote some of the things they wrote. When you know, what they taught and. Everything and how they would defend that. So that would be a good study. For you all to get into.

[01:41:54] Yeah. It’s tomorrow, the 17th. You can go to the events page and get notified of it, get RSVP, all that good stuff. I have to look, off top of my head, I don’t remember the exact time.

[01:42:17] Yeah. When you did that Jerry Clower reference, I knew I was in the right place. Right. I knew what you were going to say word for word because I’ve heard everything Jerry Clower had to say. Yeah.

[01:42:31] I just about had all his tapes memorized at one time. I love to hear that, man. My grandmother, every morning she put the cassette in there. She had every one of them, and. She’D listen to them, and that’s how.

[01:42:47] I got into them.

[01:42:54] I got to learn some of these. Going to Tyler’s life. Now, who is Tyler? Justin. Oh, Justin.

[01:43:01] Okay. Yeah. Justin Campbell. Yeah. Some people call him Justin.

[01:43:06] Some people call him Tyler. Well, that’s cool. Honestly. He’s good, too. Yeah, he is.

[01:43:15] I love what they do. I admire him. I don’t for what him and Mike. And them do with street stuff. That is definitely a gift and a calling.

[01:43:27] It is. All three of them, they do a good job at it. And just what you said, that’s not been my calling. I’m not saying that it won’t ever be or anything like that. I’m open for whatever, but that’s not something that I’ve ever been called to.

[01:43:48] And for people that are, it’s a beautiful thing. Yeah.

[01:44:01] All right, I’m going to jump off of here. You all have a good night and I will talk to you all later. All right, sir. Thank you. Good night.

[01:44:10] Good night. If nobody has anything else, I guess I’ll go. But I’ll stay here as long as. You need me to.

[01:44:17] Thank you all for coming and I thoroughly enjoyed. I’m just glad I can be a. Part of what Lord is doing and just helping people to to see and understand. And I learned a lot as well.

[01:44:43] All right, I think I’ll just call. Tonight then, if nothing else. And you all have a great evening. God bless. And we’ll see you maybe Monday on the study, and if not, we’ll see you next Saturday.

[01:44:57] Thank you all. Have a great night.



[00:00:00] It. How’s everybody this evening? Good. How are you? I think I’m all right.

[00:00:08] Yeah. Been one of them days.

[00:00:12] I know how that is. But we’re all good. All good. Yeah.

[00:00:21] Well, I’m doing well. It’s for the first time in 14 something days. It’s not over 100 degrees here in the Metroplex.

[00:00:32] Awesome. Yeah. Big cold front last night. Big major cold front. How are you feeling?

[00:00:41] Who, me? Yeah. I’m good. I got a had a good Men’s Bible study today. Got a 24 and a half minute nap.

[00:00:56] Ate my burger, my favorite burger joint today. Went golfing. Yeah, I’m having a good day. That’s awesome. Yeah.

[00:01:06] Chris said we might see you.

[00:01:11] Yeah. Yeah.

[00:01:15] You’ve never been in the Metroplex? It’s a big place. Oh, I have. It’s just been a while. Yeah.

[00:01:31] So, Kenny, I will be taking care of the scriptures in the Chat for you. Thank you very much. I’m going to do my best to read most of it out of the ESV. I like I said, I refer back. A lot to King James, but I’ll.

[00:01:50] Do most of the reading of the text out of ESV. Hey, they’re both great.

[00:02:02] Yeah. Clint said don’t be fooled. It’s KJV only for yeah. Yeah, I see that. Don’t ever be ashamed of the King James.

[00:02:14] I’m a big King James person.

[00:02:19] I am too, but some people think. That there is nothing but the King. James, and that’s what Jesus taught out. Of kind of thing, and I’m not that guy. But I do like the King James a lot.

[00:02:32] I own 14 King James Bibles. Wow.

[00:02:40] Yeah. Chris likes the king. James too. I like the King James, but I also study out of other yeah, right.

[00:02:53] Yeah, same here. I like the King James, just, if nothing else, because, like Shakespeare, it’s got. More of a poetic sound to it as you read it’s just more beautiful. To read, I guess, if you will. Right.

[00:03:06] It is reading it, too. Go ahead. I’m sorry. I’m sorry. I was just saying I grew up reading it, too, so yeah.

[00:03:21] It brings a level of comfort to. Me when I read it.

[00:03:28] Yeah.

[00:03:32] That’S all I’ve ever knew, I. Guess, growing up and and had memorized. In school and all that, so I just don’t have much of a problem with it. I do refer to other versions and. Dictionaries to get some better explanations sometime.

[00:03:49] But as Clint said, I’m mostly King James. His JD might be here in a few minutes, but I have eight two.

[00:04:00] All right, I’m going to mute at seven.

[00:04:06] If you want to wait on a few more or you want to just. Get going. We might give it a few more minutes. We usually try to wait till about five minutes after I know, inevitably someone shows up. People show up.

[00:04:24] Yeah. See, there comes.

[00:04:30] So, hey, Chris, sorry I missed your job study today. I just kind of a hectic day.

[00:04:42] My daughter and all them. Been working on getting ready for vacation. Bible school next week.

[00:04:51] I know how all that is.

[00:04:57] I ran one for two years. Like, ran it myself. And those are no joke to plan. And yeah, a lot of work isn’t.

[00:05:22] When I start teaching now, somebody just interrupt me if you got a question or something that comes up. But I’m old, so it’s hard for. Me to chew gum and talk at the same time. So maybe somebody can watch the Chat for me if there’s something, but I’ll. Try to watch it best I can.

[00:05:42] There’s something that needs to be asked. I’ll be watching it because I’ll be putting scriptures in. So if I see something that you miss, I’ll let you know. All right, thank you.

[00:06:07] We got 2 hours tonight. I’ll be in prayer. That I can do that.

[00:06:23] JD. Said he was coming, but I don’t know. It’s like 130 or one or 02:00 in the morning for him. So he may be hitting the snooze button. Who knows?

[00:06:43] It really is. Melissa said 2 hours is a standard Bible study time. As far as I’ve seen, it really is here in this discord. Yeah. You all kind of blew me away when I’m at my church, not.

[00:06:58] Knocking them, but on Sunday mornings, if I go over 30, 40 minutes, they’re back there tapping the floor. They’re ready to go, but I guess it’s lunchtime. I don’t know. But that’s really awesome that you all. Wanted to do 2 hours and I’m.

[00:07:12] Very much in on that. Clint said this is the big leagues. 2 hours. Let’s what? That’s what we’re all doing?

[00:07:24] Yep. Let’s do yep. Hungry for the word. That’s awesome.

[00:07:32] We don’t play.

[00:07:40] All right, well, just JD. May come along here in a minute. And some others, and that will be fine. But I want to get started because. We’Re going to try to cover.

[00:07:51] I’ve done enough to go through chapter. Four, so I don’t know if we’ll. Get that far today or not, but if we do, then great. We’ll go as far as the Lord leads us. How about that?

[00:08:06] I’m open with a word of prayer and we’ll get into this. Father, we just thank you now for this time to come together as brothers. And sisters in Christ to study your Word. And we just ask now that you would just lead and guide in all that we say. I pray, Father, that you would just open our eyes and our ears to.

[00:08:25] Help us to see and understand the. Truth of Your Word. We pray that the Holy Spirit be. Free to just lead and guide in. All that we say and do here tonight.

[00:08:34] Pray, Father. Just be glorified and all this done, in Jesus name I pray. Amen. All right, so we’ll.

[00:08:47] Starting out in Hebrews. Was everybody I don’t know if everybody. Was here last week, but I may do this every week just so you. Get the context of where we’re at. And what’s going on.

[00:09:04] The history of the book, as I. Said last week, for 4000 years there has been a blood sacrifice and that’s. All people have known for 4000 years. And then Abraham and Noah and all. The rest, and up to Moses.

[00:09:20] And then God ordained a organized worship. Through the tabernacle and gave his law and how that should be done with. The sacrificial system and the laws and. All those things from that point. The Jews had done that for centuries.

[00:09:40] That’s all they knew. That’s all they’re doing. And so here we are at the Book of Hebrews, written to Hebrews, basically telling Hebrews, Stop being Hebrews. It’s important that we understand that as. We study the Book of Hebrews, as.

[00:10:00] She’S saying here, hebrews can be very difficult if we don’t understand the context. And the setting of what’s going on. This is to the Jews and telling them that Christ has come. Christ is sufficient and Christ is supreme. As I said last week, if any of y’all missed that, by the way.

[00:10:19] Clint recorded that session and put it in the I forget what it’s called. The archives, library, whatever they’re under. Chris made up a folder for me and you can go back depository. Yes, thank you. And made that up.

[00:10:37] So you can go back and catch up if you haven’t. But we see that the Jews were. Struggling in Acts 15 five, where they. Talked about this problem of even wanting. The Gentiles to follow the law.

[00:10:50] And in Galatians, we see in Galatians. Three, where they were going back and forth. I’m sorry, Galatians three, where they were. Going back and forth. And Paul tells the Galatians, oh, foolish.

[00:11:07] Galatians, who hath bewitched you that you. Should obey the truth? And then he goes on.

[00:11:16] Are you. So foolish, having begun in the Spirit, or are you made perfect through the flesh? What he’s referring to there? You were saved by the Holy Spirit and through the truth of the Gospel. And now you’re going back to this religious system where the Judaizers had deceived them and thinking, oh, Christ is great, but you still need to keep doing the law.

[00:11:39] You still need to keep doing these things that are in the law. Good message there. For some people, not much has changed. So we see that that conflict did go on. And now the writer of Hebrews is.

[00:11:54] Telling them or explaining, laying out very clearly as to why you need to. Stop in the context of the whole. Book of Hebrews is the superiority of Jesus Christ. And that all of this religious system or the law and the sacrificial system, every bit of it, points to Christ. So he makes that clear.

[00:12:21] We see very many times in here that Jesus is made of a surely better testament, more excellent ministry. You just see where he’s a better way. So the context of Hebrews is christ is superior.

[00:12:39] And then we talked about last week, he is the Son of God or. The Son from eternity. So I’m just rehashing a little bit. Here of last week. And then we started talking about in verse four that he’s superior to the.

[00:12:55] Angels because the Jews put the angels very high on the pedestal. There was Yahweh, and then there was angels. The Old Testament, they didn’t know much about the Son, if anything, about the. Very there’s a lot of prophecies about. The Son, but as far as saying.

[00:13:16] He is the Son of God or. God in the flesh, they didn’t quite understand that. So angels were herald of very high esteem. And so now that we have the. Full revelation of the Gospel, he writes.

[00:13:30] This to them to say, jesus is God. He is eternal. He is the one who created all things. So with that said, that’s pretty much a recap of last week. There’s a lot more to it, obviously.

[00:13:44] But you can go back and look that up. So the main thing I want you to understand as we go into each lesson, the theme is Jesus is superior. Christ is enough for salvation. And don’t be going back to this old way of religious system.

[00:14:05] Let’s see. So now we’re going to verse two. And before I say that, I want. You all to know there’s been seen. A lot of things on TikTok and talking to people and stuff.

[00:14:17] And I just wanted to share with you a story you may have heard. Before about the two men that stand up to recite the 23rd Psalm. And this one man, a great orator, stands up and he recites the 23rd Psalm just beautifully. I mean, just great way of speaking. And when he’s through, he gets a standing ovation.

[00:14:42] The crowd, oh, this is awesome. And then the next gentleman, older gentleman. Gets up and he recites the 23rd Psalm. And as he reads and he completes. It, the crowd is silent matter of fact is weeping.

[00:15:00] And a young boy asks his father. He says, Daddy, what’s going on? He says, the first man got a standing ovation. The second man read it. Well did good, he said, but nobody’s saying anything.

[00:15:11] They’re just weeping. The father tells the young boy, the. First man knew the psalm, the second man knew the shepherd. So it’s my intention for you here today is not to be experts in. Hebrews, but to know that Jesus is.

[00:15:29] Enough to know and to see Jesus clearly. A lot of know you guys are. On TikTok and everybody’s arguing over this and that and back and forth. But the truth of what we should. Be doing is pointing people to Jesus.

[00:15:43] We want people to see Jesus. And that’s my intent with this study here. I want you to understand Hebrews, but what I really want you to understand is what Hebrew is about and who Jesus is to us. Anyway, we’ll move on with that. Getting into the verses one through four we have here there’s about four, maybe five different warnings that the writer just sort of throws into the book of Hebrews.

[00:16:15] Last week we left off he was explaining about angels. And in the first three verses here, he just throws in a warning or to take heed kind of thing, he says, first, do not neglect his salvation. He says, therefore I’m sorry, ma’am, go back to my I’m in King James, let me go to the ESV. Therefore, we must pay closer attention to what we have heard, lest we drift away from it. For since the message declared by angels proved to be reliable and every transgression.

[00:16:55] Or disobedience received a just retribution, how. Should we escape if we neglect such great salvation? It was declared at first by the. Lord and was tested to us by those who heard. And I’ll go ahead and read verse four here.

[00:17:12] While God also bore witness by signs. And wonders and various miracles and by. Gifts of the Holy Spirit distributed according to his will. So let’s go back and look at you know, and you’ve always said if there’s a therefore, is there for a reason? He’s explained in chapter one that Jesus is God, he’s the creator of all things, he’s eternal self sustaining, and he’s higher than the angels, just in who he is.

[00:17:47] So therefore, we need to give more. Earnest heed to those things which we’ve. Heard first from the Lord, as we see in verse three, lest at any. Time we should let them slip or drift away from them.

[00:18:04] I preached this message last Sunday and talking about neglecting so great a salvation, he says, for the word or the. Law, which was spoken by angels. Or as I said last week, a lot of times the Jews believe that the Ten Commandments, when we were giving that it says in Deuteronomy that they were a host of angels, was there in the giving of the law. So the Law was spoken by angels. Or by God with the angels was.

[00:18:37] Steadfast and sure or steadfast, that just means sure and unshakable. It was nothing wrong with the Law for its time and what it did. And those who broke the law in verse two, they understood that for every. Transgression or disobedience, you were to be. Punished or you got your just reward for that.

[00:19:03] So God was very strict about the law. We’ll talk about that some more later. On in our study of why God. Was well, I believe God was so. Strict about the law is because every bit of it pointed to his son.

[00:19:17] And every bit of it needed to be exactly of who his son was and what his son would complete and fulfilling all the prophecies and fulfilling all the law and meeting the standard of God.

[00:19:33] In Galatians 319, it says, wherefore then serveth the law. He’s asking the question it was added. Because of transgressions till the seed should. Come to whom the promise was made. And it was ordained or commanded by.

[00:19:50] Angels in the hand of a mediator. So the Law came because of transgression. Actually, what that’s saying is to point. Out our transgressions, to point out how. Far short we fall from the glory of God.

[00:20:08] I don’t have this one in there, but Romans 323 for all have sinned and come short of the glory of God. That’s what the law does. It tells us that we have all sinned, we all can’t meet God’s standard of the Law.

[00:20:25] Let’s see, let me see. So the angels spoke of this great. Salvation and you believed what they said. Now all they said has been revealed through Jesus Christ is what he’s saying. Here.

[00:20:42] That was first brought out from the Lord. The Lord Jesus is now the fulfillment of the Law, and he’s telling us. All about that and he will fulfill that. So verse three, how shall we escape if we neglect. Such so great a salvation?

[00:21:04] Notice there he doesn’t say and this. Is the problem with people interpreting Hebrews. They want to cherry pick verses here and there without the context of Hebrews, without understanding all of what Hebrews is about. And it is about Christ is superior and he is enough, he fulfilled the Law. So they take a verse like this.

[00:21:29] And think it’s talking about salvation. In a way, it is talking about salvation but not being saved. He is talking to, I believe, for the most part, his audience here is believers. How shall we escape if we neglect? Not reject, he said neglect that salvation, to not enjoy all that Christ has given us in salvation.

[00:21:55] And this began to be spoken of by the Lord and was confirmed to them, by them that heard them going back to the neglect in that salvation. We see an example of that in. The Old Testament with David when he sinned and committed adultery and all those things we see in his confession in. Psalms 51, where he says, restore unto. Me the joy of thy salvation, uphold me with a free spirit.

[00:22:26] He didn’t say Give my salvation back. He says, Restore the joy of that salvation. And then he goes on to say. You desire is not sacrifices, else I would give them. Thou delightest not in burnt offerings.

[00:22:41] The sacrifices of God are a broken spirit and a contrite heart. Oh God, thou will not despise. What David is saying there is why the Law is good and he must obey it. What God really wants more than you keeping the Law is repentance of sin. Repentant a repentant heart that says that.

[00:23:01] Confesses God, you are right, I am a sinner. I have broken your commandments and a broken heart. Remember that. That’s important for our studies later on, as we’ll see that God is really wanting not so much a blood sacrifice. That was all about his Son.

[00:23:20] But now that Jesus has come and died and was buried and rose again, what God wants is a heart that’s. After him, a heart that wants to serve Him. And David acknowledges that even back in Psalms 51. So the spoken by the Lord, as. Jesus began to reveal the plan of salvation, that was even something the prophets didn’t fully understand.

[00:23:46] He says in John 1612, I have yet many things to say unto you, but you cannot bear them. Now, how be it when he, the. Spirit of truth has come, he will. Guide you in all truth, for he shall not speak of himself, but whatsoever he shall hear, that shall he speak. And he will show you things to come.

[00:24:08] So even in this progressive revelation that. Chris so graciously pointed out to me. Last or reminded me of last week, is that even when Jesus was here. And he was telling about salvation and. This great salvation, he says there’s so much more to it that you can’t even bear to hear right now without the help and the understanding through the Holy Spirit.

[00:24:33] But he says you will. And we see in the next chapter where he says, well, the chapters before that I’ll send a comforter, and he will be with you and abide in you. He’ll reveal all things to. And when that Holy Spirit comes, the whole truth or the whole sum of the Gospel and all that he has. For us will be revealed to you.

[00:24:55] Clearly through the work of the Holy Spirit. So just to point out that the Old Testament prophets didn’t fully understand, the disciples didn’t fully understand even when Jesus. Was going to, ascend they were like. Okay, are you going to set up your kingdom now? And Jesus is like, no, not now is not the time for the kingdom, I’ll let you know, or the Father will let you know when the kingdom will come.

[00:25:24] So they didn’t fully understand, but they. Understood at Pentecost when the Holy Spirit came and indwelled them. And he’s what he’s referring to in the second part, last part of this. Verse, which was confirmed to us by them that heard Him. These are the apostles.

[00:25:43] These are the ones called out from. God or sent out by Jesus to. Spread the Gospel to all nations.

[00:25:55] So it was confirmed through them by. The working of the Holy Spirit.

[00:26:03] Which. Was a complete revelation of salvation through the work of the Holy Spirit. We see in one Corinthians, two, nine, and ten. He says, but as it is written, I have not seen nor ear heard what hath entered into the heart of. Man the things which God hath prepared for him that love them, but God.

[00:26:24] Hath revealed them unto us. This is Paul talking, and he’s referred to us as the apostles by the Spirit. For the Spirit searches all things, yea, the deep things of God. So we see there that this so. Great of salvation which was spoken of.

[00:26:42] By Moses and the prophets and then. Confirmed through us by the Lord, and now is confirmed through the apostles. We see these deeper things of God. Coming out in this progressive revelation throughout Scripture. And God confirmed it also in verse four, also bearing witness to them, both signed and wondering, divers miracles and gifts of the Holy Ghost according to his own will.

[00:27:14] I’m sure all of you know, but I feel like it’s kind of important to point out at this time that signs and wonders throughout the Bible and what Jesus did, what the apostles did, these signs and miracles and wonders they did was to reveal God’s authority, his power and his given authority to those. Who are sent out. So it was to confirm that he. Gave these gifts to show men that. They were sent out by God.

[00:27:47] So that’s what signs and wonders were doing. That’s why Jesus did it, to show that he was the Son of God. He was who he said he was. The apostles did many of these miracles to prove that they were sent out by Jesus and were not heretics or whatever. No one else have that kind of.

[00:28:07] Power, by the way. Nobody but apostles did those miraculous healing and all those things. It was only the apostles that did those things. So today I believe we have the completed word of God. And I don’t know if I’ll upset people here or not.

[00:28:32] This is just my stance on it, my belief, and I’ll tell you why, that there’s no need anymore for the apostolic miracles. What I’m saying here, the gift of healing, the gift of raising the dead, the gift of prophecy, all those special. Gifts, I call them sign gifts given to the apostles to authentic I can’t even say that word, to show us. That they are sent from God. Those gifts have sort of been in.

[00:29:07] Man, has been set aside and put back. They’ve served their purpose and there’s really. No need for them today. I’m not going to say that God is not still in the miracle business. God absolutely performs miracles.

[00:29:24] But to give someone a gift of. Performing miracles, I just don’t feel like. It’S needed for today. And this is why. Today we actually have a gift from God, a supernatural gift from God, and.

[00:29:39] That’S called the Holy Spirit. And today we have the Holy Spirit. Who confirms to us his word and also confirms to others we are Christians. It says in Romans 816, the Spirit itself bears witness with our Spirit that. We are his children.

[00:29:58] So the Holy Spirit within us shows. Us that we are of God. In one john five, one through three, one through 13 deals with that too. But in particular verse ten, he that believeth on the Son hath a witness in Himself. That’s the Holy Spirit.

[00:30:14] He that believeth not hath made him. A liar because he believeth not the record that God had given the Son. So the Holy Spirit within us is. A witness to that, and the Holy Spirit within us is a witness to others. The Holy Spirit does give spiritual gifts.

[00:30:33] Today we see that in one Corinthians twelve, all the gifts of the Spirit. That we do for ministry of giving, of mercy. And you can read that whole list of there. Now there’s a gift to prophesy, which is mean to proclaim the word of. God, but the actual gift of prophecy.

[00:30:53] Where there’s a new revelation that nobody’s ever heard or whatever, I believe that. Is done away with, but to prophesy. That’S basically what I’m doing here. Now, proclaiming the word of God, it’s nothing new. It’s what’s written in God’s word.

[00:31:10] I’m just proclaiming it. So today we have the completed word of God. So I don’t believe there’s any need for these apostolic miracles. So with all that said, and we’ve. Been given such a great salvation with.

[00:31:29] The gifts of the Holy Spirit to. Do those things, and we show forth the fruits of the Holy Spirit, and if we don’t do those things that you say, well, I don’t really neglect my great salvation, do you? Because if you’re not doing all that God’s called you to do, if you’re. Not surrendered to the leading of the. Holy Spirit, to do those things that he’s given you gifts to do, to.

[00:31:56] Love and to have joy and peace. In a way, we all can neglect. Our great salvation today by not doing. Those things that God has called us to do. So just the first warning here in Hebrews of how shall we escape if we neglect so great a salvation?

[00:32:16] In other words, God’s going to hold. His children accountable and God will correct his children. And we need to just understand what great salvation that Christ has given us on the cross to his death, burial and resurrection. What an awesome opportunity we have to share the good news of the Gospel with others. A great salvation.

[00:32:37] I could almost just preach that right. There, but we’ll keep moving. So is there any questions up to this point or thoughts that you’d like. For me to bring out? Wow, I took 30 minutes on four verses.

[00:32:53] We’ll try to move on through this a little quicker. So now we come after this warning. He was talking about angels in chapter one. He comes back to the angels.

[00:33:08] He comes back to confirming that Christ. Is superior to angels in verses five through 18 last time. He’s superior to angels in chapter one in that just who he is. This time he’s going to bring out Christ in his humanity is even superior to that. Just because God became man or Jesus was a man doesn’t mean that he was lower than the angels.

[00:33:39] The writer begins by stating man’s position. In verses five through eight. So let’s read that for unto the angels hath he put not into subjection the world to come wherever we speak. Well, I read that out of the King James. I’m sorry, I got both of them here in front of me.

[00:34:00] For it was not to the angels that God subjected the world to come of which we speak. It has been testified somewhere. And then he quotes let’s see, I. Think he’s quoting Genesis. Wow, I didn’t write that.

[00:34:20] No, this is Psalms eight that he’s quoting here. So.

[00:34:30] He’S saying here that God places all creation in subject to man. That’s Genesis 127 through 30, that he. Put man over every living creature that. Moveth upon the earth. We see that.

[00:34:47] But man was created a little lower. Than the angels, and they’re inferior to. Them, but man was given privileges far. Above the angels, and God created a creation and said, It is all good. And then he says to man, Take.

[00:35:06] Care of it for me. He didn’t ask the angels to do that even though we’re lower to them. He gave us a higher privilege than the angels to take care of his creation, and obviously we failed that miserably. But we’ll talk about that some more. In just a minute.

[00:35:22] But in verse six, but in a. Certain place testified, saying, what is man, that thou art mindful of him, or the Son of man, that thou should visit him? Here he’s quoting Psalms eight, three through five, as the psalmist is just contemplating. That, wow, what a man. That you would even pay attention to me, that you would even consider me, that you would even show yourself to me.

[00:35:47] Job said. Sorry, Chris. I’m getting job a little bit. Job 717 what is man, that thou shouldst magnify him and that thou shouldst. Set thy heart upon him, and thou.

[00:36:01] Shouldst visit him every morning and try his every moment. Job is asking this question, who am. I that God would even reveal himself to me? So we see this in the Psalms. And as you read Psalms, just read through that closely and carefully.

[00:36:21] Beautiful Psalm when I consider the heavens. The work of thy fingers, the moon. The stars, and thou hast ordained, what is man that thou art marred? For I look at all of creation, all of God’s glory, and all of God’s splendor.

[00:36:38] I’m so unworthy that you would even consider me. Thou hast made him, he says in. Verse five of Psalms eight, thou hast. Made him a little lower the angels. Thou hast crowned him with glory and honor.

[00:36:53] You’re made a little order of the angels, but crowned him with glory and honor. In keeping up with his creation, thou. Hast made us him to have dominion over the works of thy hand. Thou hast put all things under his feet, all sheep, oxen, yea, the beast. Of the field, the foul of the.

[00:37:12] Air, the fish of the sea, and. Whatsoever passes through the. Path of the sea. So referring back to Genesis 127, where. God said have dominion over every living thing, the psalmist is reflecting on that of all that the responsibility and the things that God has given us to do.

[00:37:32] So in verse seven, thou madeest him. He’S talking about man. Thou madeest him a little lower than the angels. Thou crownest him man with glory and honor. Thou didst set him man.

[00:37:48] I’m doing King James again. I’m sorry, guys, I think I’m on verse eight.

[00:37:58] Let me back up to the ESV. He made him a little lower than the angels. You have crowned him with glory and honor, putting everything in subjection under his feet.

[00:38:12] God has put everything in subjection to man. He created it perfectly and said, here, it’s all yours, take care of it. But we no longer see that that man has everything under his feet, obviously. Why? Because of sin.

[00:38:33] Because of the fall. But one day we will rule with Christ forever.

[00:38:44] But now we see not all things. Put under him, but one day we will. We see in one corinthians six, he. Says verses one through four. Do any of you having a matter.

[00:38:59] Against another go to the law before the unjust and not before the saints? Paul is talking to the people at Corinth and they’re bickering, fussering over these legal things or disputes and they’re wanting to take them to court and sue them and all those things he said. Can you not, in verse two, do you not know that the saints will judge the world? In other words, you’re bickering and quarreling. Over these little things and you guys.

[00:39:25] Are supposed to judge the world someday. Come on now. So this is the way I paraphrase what Paul is saying. And if the world shall be judged by you, are you unworthy to judge the smallest matters? And then he says this verse, know.

[00:39:42] You not that we shall judge angels. How much more the things pertaining to life. Now that how we should judge angels. I’ll be honest with you, I am not there yet. Maybe some of you a lot smarter than me.

[00:39:59] I know that’s what it says. I know that’s what Paul says. But how it all falls into place that we judge or do this with. Angels, I’m not real clear. I got my ideas, but I really just don’t want to say them because.

[00:40:16] That’S all it is, is ideas. But Paul has said this here and I take God’s word, what it says. And it’s going to be awesome that. God gives us that much responsibility or. That kind of authority, I guess you would say.

[00:40:34] So now we go on to verse nine. The writer explains what man could not do, jesus did as man. So we see. But we see verse eight, but we. See not yet all things put under, in other words, the curse of sin.

[00:40:55] But then verse nine, but we see jesus.

[00:41:01] That’s one of them great, buts in. The Bible, but God but we see Jesus whom was made let me go. Back to the NIV. But we see him. That’s Jesus, who for a little while.

[00:41:15] Was made lower than the angels, namely. Jesus crowned with glory and honor because of the suffering of death, so that. By the grace of God he might. Taste death for everyone. We see Jesus, he made a little lower than the angels.

[00:41:34] He became man for the sufferings of death. One God cannot die. So he became man to die for. Man to associate with. Another thing I wanted to point out.

[00:41:51] Or make it clear here that Jesus tasted death. Jesus fully experienced death in a way that none of us ever will. But it wasn’t just a little dabble in it. He tasted death to the fullest extent. I want you to remember that, because it will come almost like a teacher.

[00:42:17] Tells you on a test. Remember this, you’re going to see it again. Well, I’m telling you, remember that, you’re going to see it again. In Hebrews.

[00:42:27] We’Ll explain it further. But I want you to remember that he tasted death to the lowest extent.

[00:42:36] Jesus did perfectly what he wanted man. To do in the beginning, where man was put over the Earth to give. Dominion over it and then failed. And we don’t see things under him anymore. What man could not do, Jesus did.

[00:42:52] Perfectly when he was here on Earth. We see that with his disciples. Remember when he got up and he calmed the storm and did all that? That’s why the disciples were so blown. Away in the statement they made that.

[00:43:07] What manner of man is this that even the winds and the sea obey him? When God gave the command back in Genesis, he said to have dominion over. The Earth and subdue it, and you’re. Over every living thing that creeps upon the Earth. But here Jesus is not over all.

[00:43:27] That, but even over the winds and the sea. That’s why the disciples were just, wow. We’Re supposed to have dominion over every. Living thing, but this man even has power over the winds and the sea. So what man could not do and.

[00:43:43] What God intended him to do, jesus fulfilled perfectly and gave the perfect example of what God intended for us in the very beginning. So Jesus is God’s answer to man’s. Fallen problem, our sinful dilemma, verse ten.

[00:44:04] For it became man for whom all. Things back in NIV. Why do I keep doing that? For it was verse ten. Fitting that he from whom and by whom all things exist in bringing many.

[00:44:20] Sons to glory, should make the founder. Of their salvation perfect through sufferings. So the King James says, he’s the captain of our salvation. This is the pioneer, the one that goes before us in their salvation. He completed it perfectly, effectively and adequately is the word for perfect.

[00:44:47] There everything that was required by God. Jesus fulfilled perfectly and became the captain of our salvation, or the NIV, the founder of our salvation. So he was perfect through sufferings. It says here. And we’ll see in Hebrews 415, he was touched in every way as we are, yet without sin.

[00:45:13] So Jesus became man, fully identifying with us, to redeem us. And so he has perfected or completed salvation as God’s requirement for salvation through his sufferings. Now, verse eleven for both he that sanctifyeth, that’s Jesus. Here I am again. Go back to the ESP.

[00:45:43] For he who sanctifies and those who are sanctified all have one source. That is why he is not ashamed. To be to call them brothers, saying, I will tell of your name to my brothers, in the midst of the congregation, I will sing your praise. And again I will put my trust in Him. And again, behold, I and the children of God, I and the children God has given me.

[00:46:19] So he that sanctifyeth is Jesus, and. Those who are sanctified is the believers or us. And this is the body of Christ, both Jew and Gentile. We see this in Ephesians, where he brought salvation wasn’t only for the Jews, but was for the Gentiles as well. So Jesus is saying here for which cause he jesus is not ashamed to call us brethren.

[00:46:49] He became man, fully identified with us, and he calls us brethren. So we are one body under one Lord, and he calls us brothers and sisters. Now, he shares that glory with all. Who trust Him for salvation. He brings many sons and daughters to glory.

[00:47:11] We see that in John 1723 or 22 through 24. And to me this is actually I. Mean, we call the Lord’s Prayer our Father, which art in heaven. To me, this is the Lord’s Prayer, really. The other one was example of how we pray.

[00:47:32] This was Jesus praying to the Father right before he went to the cross. In John 17 and in verse 22. He says, the glory which thou gavest. Me, I have given them. You to think about that for a minute.

[00:47:47] The glory that Jesus has jesus is going to give to us to pass. Down to us through him that they. May be one even as we are one, I and them, thou and me. That they may perfect in one and. That the world may know that Thou.

[00:48:07] Hast sent me and hast loved them. And Thou hast loved me, father, I will. That they also, whom Thou hast given me be with me where I am that they may behold my glory which. Thou hast given me. For Thou lovest me before the foundations of the world.

[00:48:30] Now, I’m not going to get into. It here, but any of you arguing over the Trinity, there’s some very good verses right there to really chew on. And sort to get under your belt of do we believe in the Trinity? Or not. And all I’ll say about that is, I do.

[00:48:49] So there’s all kinds of verses that point to that. So that’s not our study. So I’ll just move on. Try not to chase too many rabbits. So, verse twelve saying, I will declare.

[00:49:02] Thy name to the brethren.

[00:49:07] I’ve already read verse twelve. This verse is when he declares his name to the brethren. He’s quoting Psalms 22 22. He says that in here. In John 17, verses six and 27, I have manifest thy name unto the men which thou gavest me out of.

[00:49:26] The world thine they were, and thou gavest them me, and they have kept thy word. Verse 26 of John 17, and I. Have declared them unto them thy name and will declare jesus is declaring worship. Of the Father before us. He’s manifest the Father to us.

[00:49:51] And this is what verse twelve is. Saying here, I’ve declared thy name to. The brethren in the midst of the church, and I’ll sing praises to you. Jesus is quoting Psalm 22 22, but that Psalm 22 22 is about him and what he is coming to do.

[00:50:11] Just my little personal look at this. When I see this that I will declare thy name. What he says here, I will tell. In verse twelve, I will tell of your name to my brothers in the midst of the congregation, I will sing your praises. You know what I picture there when.

[00:50:34] I’m at church or whether I’m with brothers, brothers and sisters, and we’re praising and worshiping. Jesus is there in our midst worshiping with us, praising God the Father. Oh, that’s awesome to me that he’s. In our midst doing that. So I’ll keep going.

[00:50:53] I get a little out of sideways sometimes, and I’ll know that by now. I think verse 13, what he’s talking about? He’s quoting Isaiah 817 through 18. Isaiah is saying that I will put my trust in him, and again, behold the children which God has given me. Isaiah is saying that I and my.

[00:51:17] Children will put my trust in you. Well, Jesus is quoting that and applying. That to him here. He’s quoting that and applying it to Jesus. As Jesus says, I and all those.

[00:51:32] Whom you give me, all your children. Who given me will declare your name. We will worship you, we will put your trust in you. And as he brings man into the. Family of God, we become the children of God.

[00:51:50] Basically to me in John 17, he’s saying, we are family, this is our family, and this is what I’ve done. I’ve brought them to you, and we all worship you.

[00:52:06] So we’re not all just called brethren we see in here in this text, but we’re also called his children. His humanity enabled him to disarm Satan. And deliver us from death. So this is something that angels couldn’t do.

[00:52:29] In verse 14, we’ll read, since therefore.

[00:52:35] Since therefore the children shall share in. Flesh and blood, he himself likewise partook of the same things that through death. He might destroy the one who hath power over death that is the Devil. So God became man to identify with us, to redeem us. He became our kinsman redeemer.

[00:53:01] You all understand all what that means. And he did all that to destroy. What sins hold had on us, what. Satan had on us. Jesus destroyed and took it away.

[00:53:16] And he did that by becoming man. By associating with man, associated man. And then also he became our Kinsman Redeemer. Y’all understand the book of Ruth, that’s what it’s about. He is our kinsman.

[00:53:34] Redeemer and to the Jewish law and custom to be a Kinsman Redeemer one, you had to be related. Boaz was related so he could redeem the land, Mary, Ruth, whatever and all those things, he was a Kinsman Redeemer. He was of relationship. Jesus became man. That put him in the right relationship.

[00:54:02] Even fulfilling the law in this that. The law said you had to be related to be a Kinsman Redeemer. Jesus became man, he’s related, he had to be willing. Was Jesus willing? He certainly was.

[00:54:16] Who for the joy endured the cross, he came willingly to do the will of the Father. So the Kinsman Redeemer first had to be related. He had to be willing to be the Kinsman Redeemer. And then he had to have the. Means or had to be able to do that.

[00:54:33] He had to have the money, whatever it took to buy back to be a Kinsman Redeemer. Those were the three requirements related, willing and able. We see that in the book of Ruth. Jesus was related and he became man. Jesus was willing and Jesus by his.

[00:54:53] Perfect blood, without sin, was able to. Redeem us and purchase our salvation. So Jesus became man, became our Kinsman. Redeemer to redeem us, to bring us. Back to God, to purchase us with his blood.

[00:55:12] And through that he has the power over death of sin. The sin that controls us and has. Power over us no longer does. Through the blood of Jesus you said, well, I still struggle with sin, yes, but it’s paid for by the blood of Jesus. That’s why first John one nine is there, we all going to struggle, that’s why Romans seven there Paul talks about his struggle with sin.

[00:55:38] That doesn’t mean we’re perfect yet. That just means we’re purchased our blood has been paid for once and for. All on the cross now verse 15. And deliver all those who through the fear of death were subject to lifelong slavery. So in the Old Testament, as he’s referring to these Hebrews here, all they knew, all the Old Testament was the fear of death.

[00:56:09] Job talked about, I know my redeemer liveth. David talked about, my son can’t come back to me, but I can go to him. They understood there was something but the assurance of their salvation, the assurance of. All that maybe wasn’t there. And we sort of see this here.

[00:56:26] Just not so sure about death. And I live in a lifetime of bondage to sin. Will I face God’s wrath and punishment after that? But we know now with the completed scriptures that the wrath of God is poured out on those who have not. Accepted Jesus as their personal savior, whose blood has not covered them.

[00:56:52] So no longer we read in one. Corinthians 15, do we have a fear of death? Paul says, oh, death, where is thy sting? O grave, where is thy victory? The sting of death is sin, but.

[00:57:04] The strength of sin is the law. And he’s talking to oh, death, where is your sting? We don’t have the sting of death any longer through the blood of Jesus Christ. As we said, we were talking in. The Chat earlier this week, to be.

[00:57:18] Absent from the body is presence with. The Lord through the blood of Jesus. So we don’t have the fear of. Death anymore like they used to do. Verse 16 for surely it is not angels that he helps, but he helps.

[00:57:34] The offspring of Abraham.

[00:57:40] I’m going to read that King James and y’all forgive me, but I understand King James better. Sometimes the NIV, especially NIV and ESV, just confuse me on how they word. Things, maybe just because I’m not used to it. For verily, he took on Him the. Nature of angels, but he took on.

[00:57:59] Him the seed of Abraham. He didn’t come as an angel. He didn’t come to fulfill all of. God’s law and to purchase our salvation as an angel. He came as a man through the seed of Abraham.

[00:58:15] He wasn’t like Michael the Archangel going to battle. He became as a man to restore God, the relationship between man and God. Verse 17 therefore, he had to be. Made like his brothers in every respect. So that he might become a merciful.

[00:58:37] And high priest and the service of. God to make pituitation for the sin of the people. So he became our high priest. And I know what you’re going through. He could identify with us.

[00:58:52] He could intercede for us. And knowing how the struggles that we. Go through, this is something that the. High priest of the Old Testament, he didn’t know those things. He just knew the law.

[00:59:05] He knew what God said, and you better do it. But Jesus, as our high priest, knew. The law, fulfilled the Law, yet understands what we go through. He’s tempted in every way, as we are. Verse 18 for because he himself has suffered when tempted, he is able to help those who are being tempted.

[00:59:29] I believe it pained Jesus to even. Be tempted by Satan to see what. The effects of sin and to see. What corruption in God and all of. God’s creation had done.

[00:59:44] And then he was tempted, yet without sin. He became our high priest. He’s moved with when he sees us and when he sees what sin, the effects of sin has had on creation. So I guess to summarize chapter two. When Jesus became man, he did not.

[01:00:05] Become inferior to the angels, even in. His human body, for he accomplished something. The angels could never accomplish. At the same time, he made it. Possible for us to share in his glory.

[01:00:21] So I’ll just pause there for a minute. Any comments or thoughts as I go. To my next thing here and get it? Pull up chapter three. Is that pretty clear to everybody tonight?

[01:00:34] I know I’m trying to run through it kind of quick. Got to get a drink of water.

[01:00:43] And that took approximately 1 hour, so. We’Re pretty much on schedule.

[01:00:57] All right, if there’s no comments or. Questions, we are going to move on. To chapter three. Now, we’ve seen up to this point that he explained who Jesus is for an eternity past. He is God.

[01:01:17] He’s the creator of all things. He’s better. He’s superior to the angels. He’s superior to Adam who brought sin into the world. And now he’s going to go on to say he’s even superior to Moses.

[01:01:30] And I could almost picture these Jewish readers right here just falling over backwards. In their chair, no, not Moses. You got to leave Moses out of this. I mean, Moses was their patriarch. I mean, you have patriarchs in your.

[01:01:45] Church that everybody loves so dearly and. Looks up to so much, truly to goodness. You wouldn’t talk about a patriarch that way. And now he’s going to go into even Moses. Christ has superior even to, uh but.

[01:02:01] I want you to understand as we go into this and we go through. The Book of Hebrews, there’s something I. Feel like is very important for us to see that as I’ve listened and looked on TikTok and hear people say things that many people often see God’s wrath or judgment on people. As you’re going to hell. That’s it.

[01:02:26] We’re going to see in this lesson that God’s wrath or judgment can be. On his own children because of disobedience or unbelief. We’ll see that later on in chapter twelve. We’ll see where God disciplines his children. So it just sort of gets me sometimes that a lot of times people.

[01:02:51] Say, well, if you do this or that there’s heaven or hell and that’s it, or there’s good or bad. And it’s like people only see every verse as you’re going to heaven or you’re going to Hell, which is ultimately true. That is our final destination, but here on earth. But there are verses that show us. Or reveal to us of Christian unrest, broken fellowship because of unbelief or disobedience.

[01:03:25] The prodigal Son came to me this. Week was a perfect example of a. Christian who is in spiritual unrest, who. Has a relationship with the Father. He’s the son of the father.

[01:03:40] That never changed. He never stopped being the Son in all that he did. Yet when he was laying in the mud and the slop with the pigs, he was very much in unrest. He was a broken fellowship, contemplating on. Could I even go back to the Father or not?

[01:03:59] I wonder if any I feel that. Often, how could God love me and. How could I do it? And I believe that’s why John put in one John one nine. It’s an assurance.

[01:04:10] If we confess our sins, if we agree with God, he’s faithful and just to forgive us, we’ve been forgiven of that sin. Just go to Him and have that restored fellowship. So just because you’re not in the perfect will of God doesn’t mean, okay. You’Re not saved anymore, you’re going to hell. That just means you may be in a place where of unrest or your fellowship is broken because of disobedience or because of sin in your life, unconfessed sin that you haven’t made right with God.

[01:04:45] And here again, I’m not saying that we got to go confess our sins every time. Well, we do. Let me reword that for salvation. We don’t confess our sins every time. For salvation, but we confess them to restore that fellowship.

[01:05:03] I know as a little boy and my dad, every time I disobeyed Him, I did something wrong. There was that rub between us. But when I would go and apologize and make it right and we could talk it out and that fellowship was restored, it was a beautiful thing. I think it’s the same with our Heavenly Father. We never lose our relationship as his.

[01:05:27] Child, but we can hinder that fellowship. So all that said, let’s go on. To chapter three, because I think that points that out pretty clearly in here, and that Jesus is saying, or the writer is saying that Christ is superior to Moses. In verses verse one and two, he’s superior as just a person. You compare person to person.

[01:05:53] Moses is a person. Jesus is a person. He’s even superior to oh, I didn’t take my let me go to chapter three here in the ESV. He says, Therefore, holy brethren, you who share in a heavenly call, consider Jesus. Listen to what he’s saying there therefore.

[01:06:18] Again, there he is, there again. Therefore. Now that you understand that, that he’s. Better than angels, and he’s a great. High priest that can associate with us.

[01:06:27] Therefore, holy brothers, he’s talking to Christians here, I think, throughout pretty much the whole thing, he’s referring to Christians, those who believe, holy brothers, you who share in a heavenly calling, consider Jesus. See who he’s talking to there. He’s talking to believers, the apostle and high priest of our confession. You confess with your mouth the Lord Jesus. You believed in heart that God has raised Him from the dead.

[01:07:05] You have identified with him. You are a believer. Now consider all that Jesus has done for you. First, he’s the apostle, and you say, Wait, a minute. He wasn’t one of the twelve?

[01:07:17] No, he wasn’t one of the twelve. But apostle just means one sent out. One. Jesus is here. Why he’s referring to the apostle is he is sent out by God the Father.

[01:07:30] So in a way he is an apostle. And then his Son sent the disciples, who were the original twelve apostles. They were personally sent out and that’s. Why they called them apostles. That’s why Paul could call himself an apostle because Jesus met him on the road to Damascus and personally sent him to go to the Gentiles and preach.

[01:07:56] The Gospel to the Gentiles. So he’s apostle. Now, in a way, I don’t like. Calling ourselves apostles, but we are sent out. The Father sends the Son, the Son sent the disciples, and the disciples send us, or the Holy Spirit sends us to go out in all the world.

[01:08:15] To preach the Gospel. So now the next part of that. Is he is the apostle and high. Priest of our profession. See, an apostle speaks a message from God.

[01:08:31] He’s the sent out one and he speaks a message from God.

[01:08:38] But a priest, naidu is a contrast here. But a high priest, what does he do? He speaks to God for the people. Isn’t that awesome? An apostle speaks a message from God.

[01:08:52] A priest speaks to God for the people. So he’s identified him in both positions. There the one sent out and the. One that speaks on our behalf. So consider Jesus and all the ministry.

[01:09:06] That he does as our high priest. Verse two, who was faithful to him, who appointed him? Just as Moses also was faithful in all God’s house. So here he is doing the contrast between Moses and Jesus. Moses was faithful to God and to the people.

[01:09:34] This is the house here he’s talking about is the Israel, the people as he ministered and made sure those things were done in the tabernacle by Aaron, the high priest. Moses was faithful in those things, very faithful. But Jesus, Moses ministry was great in the tabernacle. And these Hebrews that were hearing this were understanding this 100%. Now they’re waiting for the punchline.

[01:10:02] Okay, you said he’s better than Moses. He said, for this man in verse. Three, for Jesus has been counted worthy. Of more glory than Moses. Now there’s where their jaws hit the.

[01:10:16] Floor, and much more glory, as the. Builder of the house has more honor than the house itself. So this man or Jesus had more. Glory, counted more glory than Moses. Moses was the builder of the tabernacle.

[01:10:38] Moses was the leader of Israel. But Moses wasn’t the designer of the tabernacle. Moses wasn’t the God of Israel. He was just a minister. He was a tool of God to.

[01:10:50] Do those things we’ll see here in verse four. But Moses built an earthly tabernacle where. Jesus builds an eternal tabernacle. We’ll see down here in just a minute. It’ll explain that even more, as we see in verse six.

[01:11:10] So the tabernacle, tabernacle means dwelling place, and the tabernacle was God’s dwelling place. With the people of Israel in the. Old Testament, which Solomon built the temple, which was the permanent dwelling place.

[01:11:30] It says in verse four in the ESV, for every house was built by. Someone, by the builder of all things.

[01:11:42] It this to me, I’ll be honest. With you, I just sort of had to read this verse about 20 times. To try to get this in my. Head, to understand it and how to explain it. Moses was a member of the household.

[01:11:57] But Jesus built the house. Does that make sense to you, that. While Moses built the tabernacle, he led the children of Israel? It was God’s house.

[01:12:12] Yeah, some eyes did get big because he’s comparing here and putting run down. Or not putting down, but saying their. Patriarch wasn’t as much as Jesus. And this is also in here, you. Could point to the deity of Jesus that Jesus created all things.

[01:12:33] He’s the builder of all things, is God. So, again, that’s not our study, but that’s just something for you to sort of chew on and have a verse. To put in your hip pocket, so to speak. I told y’all, I’m country, so I’m. A Southern boy, so you can just kind of chew on that.

[01:12:53] So Moses in verse. Five. Now, Moses was faithful in all his. House as a servant to testify to the things that were to be spoken later. Jesus said, Moses spoke of me.

[01:13:10] He spoke me. And he did this verbally, he did. This in his actions. The tabernacle, every bit of it points to Jesus. The Law, every bit of it points to Jesus.

[01:13:22] So this is what he’s talking about, that Moses. And all that he did was pointing. Those Jews at the time to Christ. To understand who he was and his finished work and all those rituals and things that they had to do in the tabernacle and the law. Every jot and tittle, as Jesus said.

[01:13:46] Was about Him, for him, that he fulfilled them. So that’s something that was said earlier this week. Should I study Hebrew? Go through the Hebrew study if I. Haven’T finished the Old Testament?

[01:14:03] My take on that is, and I know I differ a little bit with Mike, and I love Mike and not here to argue with him. To me, Hebrews would give you an overall summary of the Old Testament. So when you go the Old Testament and you read about all the rituals and the tabernacle and all those things, it’s pointing to Jesus as being superior of all. You know, that’s his take. My take.

[01:14:27] It’s where you’re at in your Christian walk. Neither one of us are wrong. It’s just how you approach it and what best fits you. So, verse six, but Christ is faithful over God’s house as a son, and we are His. House if indeed we hold fast the confidence of our boasting in our hope.

[01:14:54] So there you go. Moses built an earthly tabernacle. Now, we’ll get into this later on in the study, too, the comparison of earthly things and heavenly things. Moses built an earthly tabernacle. What tabernacle Jesus built was us.

[01:15:13] Moses had a tabernacle or dwelling place of God that was made by hands. What Jesus did on the cross was building the body of Christ, the family of God, his children. That’s us. That is God’s dwelling place. One corinthians.

[01:15:28] 316. Know you not that you are the. Temple of God and that the Spirit. Of God dwelleth in you. You are the tabernacle.

[01:15:39] You are his dwelling place. Paul refers to that in two corinthians of being this tabernacle, this body which. We have now being dissolved, and we’ll. Get a new body in heaven. So just sort of throw that in there too.

[01:15:58] But I’ll move on. Let’s look at this. If we hold fast the confidence and. Rejoicing the hope to the end, this is not saying that we as Christians must keep ourselves saved. It’s not what he’s saying here.

[01:16:15] This if that he used here. If somebody takes this verse, which they. Do out of context and say, okay, there you go. We’re saved by grace through faith. If we hold fast the confidence and the rejoicing and the hope, if we do that, we remain saved.

[01:16:34] Well, as I told you all at. The beginning of this study, and I’ll tell you at the beginning of every one of our studies, context is everything. You’ve got to understand the context. This is not what he’s even talking. About in chapter three.

[01:16:49] He’s not talking about salvation. He’s talking about the context of this. If we keep ourselves.

[01:16:58] Well, let’s say. That if we’re to keep ourselves saved, then it defeats the whole purpose of the Book. The whole purpose of the Book is to show you that Christ is superior. Our salvation is in him. We are complete in him.

[01:17:15] He is enough. There is no if we do. He has done everything, and I put. My trust and faith in Him, okay? For salvation.

[01:17:28] I hope that’s real clear. Don’t let people take that out of context there. So as Moses and Christ is faithful. To the work of God, so should. We remain faithful until he returns.

[01:17:43] That’s the context of what’s going on here. Moses was faithful in his house. Christ is faithful over his house, and. We are in Christ. We are his tabernacle.

[01:17:54] Let us be faithful if we will be faithful. If we hold the confidence that we had at the beginning of our salvation and rejoice in that salvation, this so great salvation we’ve been given, we will. Be found faithful, not saved, but faithful to his calling. I hope that’s clear to everybody. Everybody give me an Amen thumbs up or something if everybody understands that, because.

[01:18:22] I think that’s very important. For us to see.

[01:18:27] Now, verse seven. Thank you, thank you, thank you. The old preacher needs an amen every now and then. We go to verse seven. Therefore, as the Holy Spirit says today.

[01:18:44] If you hear his voice, do not. Harden your hearts, as in the rebellion on the day of testing in the. Wilderness, when your fathers put me to. The test and saw my works for 40 years. Therefore, I was provoked with that generation.

[01:18:59] And said, they always go astray in their heart. They have not known my ways. As I swore in My wrath, they. Shall not enter into my rest. I read through verse eleven.

[01:19:14] We’ll go back to verse seven. There he’s quoting Psalms 95, seven through eleven. And what he’s telling these Hebrew listeners. Here is, don’t fall back into these. Old temple rituals and religion.

[01:19:32] Christ has completed it. He is enough. He is superior to all that. Stop going back to that today. If you’ll hear his voice, you’ll end his rest.

[01:19:43] Now, this is important. You’re really listening, because I want to drive something home that maybe a lot. Of you understand, maybe you don’t, of. What all the Old Testament was about and what he’s quoting here. And when they harden their hearts in the day of provocation, this is an example that these Jews could fully identify with, because they knew it very well of when they left Egypt, they crossed the Red Sea, moses went to Mount Sinai and got the Ten Commandments and the Blueprints, as I call them, to the Tabernacle.

[01:20:18] They went to go the Promised Land. And they said, oh, there’s giants in the land. We’re grasshoppers in their sights. We just can’t do this. This is the provocation.

[01:20:28] This is the day of temptation in the wilderness. God said, I promise you a land. I’m going to give you a land. But because of their unbelief, they didn’t get that land. That generation did not see that land.

[01:20:41] Now, what does all that mean?

[01:20:45] Sorry, I’d get another drink of water. So we see there in numbers 1433, the judgment was made that that generation would wander for 40 years in the wilderness. When Joshua first starts out and.

[01:21:06] They begin, they cross the Jordan and go into the Promised Land, and the first. City they conquer is Jericho in Joshua 29. It’s very interesting to me. Listen to what rehab confesses. Rehab is talking to the two spies.

[01:21:23] And she says unto the men, I. Know that the Lord hath given you. The land and that your terror is fallen upon us, and that all the. Inhabitants of the land faint because of you. These are Gentiles speaking to these two spies about Israel, saying, we know that.

[01:21:48] God’s going to give you this land. We knew this 40 years ago. We were terrified 40 years ago that you were coming. And we understood that the God of Israel was the Almighty God, and he was with you and we could not defeat you. You were going to get the land.

[01:22:06] She confessed to that in Joshua 29 that they knew this 40 years ago, isn’t it? OD how Israel didn’t know it 40 years ago. It’s interesting that a Gentile had to. Confirm to God’s people that God has. Promised you this and he’s going to give it to you.

[01:22:23] So the Gentiles believed it before the Israelites believed it. There’s a lesson for you right there. And I could just preach on that right there. How many times in our lives did God give us promises? And he’ll never leave us nor forsake us?

[01:22:37] And he’s going to carry us, he’s going to see us to the other side, and we’re like, oh, I don’t know if I can or not. That’s unbelief. This is not talking about unbelief of salvation. This is talking about unbelief in your Christian walk. And I’ll show you that here in.

[01:22:52] Just a few minutes.

[01:22:55] So he swore by their wrath that they wouldn’t enter into his rest. Now, that wrath there is anger. It’s not God’s wrath, as in the Tribulation, where he pours out his wrath. But he is angry. But he is punishing those who reject his son.

[01:23:14] But this wrath here is just God’s angry with them. For 40 years or for all this time. I’ve brought you across the Red Sea, I’ve did all these mighty works in your hand. I’ve taken care of you. And you come up and you say, there’s giants in the land and we’re grasshoppers in their sight.

[01:23:30] And you can’t get the land because you’re scared. That made God angry. And in Deuteronomy 134, and the Lord heard the voice of your words. He’s talking about the spies who came back and said, we’re grasshoppers in their sight. We’re scared.

[01:23:46] God heard that and was wroth and. Swear, saying surely there shall not one of these men of this evil generation see the Good Land the Promised Land. Which I swear to give your fathers save Caleb, the son of Jephune. He shall see it. And to him will I give the.

[01:24:10] Land that he hath trotted upon and. To the children because he hath wholly. Followed the Lord also. The Lord was angry with me. Moses says, for your sake, saying, thou.

[01:24:26] Shalt not go in thither. In other words, you’re not going either. Now, Moses had another reason for not going, and I know a lot of you might be saying, Wait a minute, where’s Joshua? It was Caleb and Joshua that both. Said they could take it.

[01:24:40] I just read you the verses about Caleb on down. If you keep reading. In Deuteronomy one, it talks about Joshua. Is going, but he’s going as the one that takes Moses place. But Moses, these 40 didn’t go because of unbelief.

[01:24:57] And Moses wasn’t allowed to go into Promised Land either, because of disobedience. And you remember that, that he struck. The rock instead of speaking to it. In exodus 17 six. God tells him, Strike the rock and let water come forth.

[01:25:13] But in Numbers 20, he says, Speak to the rock. Well, Moses got mad and struck the rock. Well, that was directly disobeying what God said. And even in that there is a. Picture of Christ and that he died once.

[01:25:31] He is the rock. He is the cornerstone that was stricken. As the psalmist says, for our iniquity. He died once and for all. When Moses hit it twice, he was.

[01:25:45] Signifying in that picture that God was trying to throw Israel, that the Redeemer. Would have to die twice is what Moses was doing. That’s why God was so upset. He said, Speak to the rock, don’t. Strike it the second time.

[01:25:59] The first time he was stricken. He died for our sins once and. For all, he died once. We’ll see this later in our study. The second time he said Speak.

[01:26:09] And he didn’t do it. And God was.

[01:26:15] Well. Good. Praise the Lord for that. I want you to see Jesus. I want you to see Jesus.

[01:26:23] So this is why God was so. Angry with Moses for striking the rock the second time, because it pointed to His Son and his finished work on the cross. So here we go. Let’s get into this. He swore by his wrath they wouldn’t go into the Promised Land.

[01:26:41] They wouldn’t do that. So many people get this wrong, and I want you to hear me clearly. The Promised Land is not a picture of heaven. I’ll say it again and again and again. The Promised Land is not a picture of heaven.

[01:26:58] There’s songs about it, people talk about it. That the promised land. That is not heaven, people. The Promised Land had boundaries and borders that needed to be protected and guarded against the enemy every day. I see nothing about like that about heaven.

[01:27:20] We get to heaven. The battle is finished. The battle on the cross for our. Salvation was finished at the cross. But our struggle in our Christian walk and trying to live this Christian life of what I call victorious Christian life.

[01:27:34] Is here on earth. We are constantly fighting the flesh and temptations and trying to we need to keep up our guard that we’re not tempted and that we don’t fall in a heart of unbelief, of the promises of God. So the Promised Land is a picture of our Christian life, the victorious Christian life. As long as you protect those borders, you protect it from the enemy. This is what Moses didn’t enter.

[01:28:01] He didn’t enter into that rest, that Christian life, the rest that we have in Christ that he can do all things through us. This is what that generation didn’t go into. It wasn’t a picture saying they weren’t going to heaven. Well, how do I know that? Let me just ask you just one for instance, just real quickly here, because we’re getting short on time.

[01:28:27] Who appeared at the Mount of Transfiguration to Jesus when Peter, James and John. Was there, who appeared with Elijah?

[01:28:38] Moses. So Moses must be in heaven, right? So if the Promised Land was a. Picture of heaven, moses shouldn’t appear there. The promised land is the victorious Christian life we have in Christ.

[01:28:56] The Promised Land is not heaven, it’s the victorious Christian land. That’s all I can say. I guess. Let me just do this real quick. Even leave Israel, leaving Egypt is a.

[01:29:09] Picture of our salvation. When the plagues were coming and he told them to put the blood on the doorpost, he said, When I see the blood, I will pass over you. By the blood, they were saved. They were spared from the death angel, and that is our salvation. That’s a picture of our salvation.

[01:29:32] Only by the blood are we saved. We taken out of the bondage of being slaves in Egypt of all those years that they were slaves. Through the blood, they were saved. And they were brought out of that by the blood, out of bondage and our bondage to sin. And then they crossed the Red Sea, a perfect picture of once saved, always saved.

[01:29:59] They crossed the Red Sea. God made the way. He destroyed the enemy, Satan, and then. Closed the Red Sea back behind him, never to return again. They were saved by the blood in Egypt.

[01:30:13] They crossed the Red Sea, never to return again. Then when they get to Sinai, god gives them the law. He makes a dwelling place. When we are saved, God writes his. Laws on our heart.

[01:30:27] He makes us his dwelling place. And if we obey Him and trust Him, we go on to that victorious Christian life, that Promised Land, that rest that we have in Christ. I’m sorry, guys. I almost could preach that right there. But that’s what this is all about.

[01:30:46] It’s all about Jesus. And if you understand this, then you can read the Old Testament and see, oh, there’s Jesus, there’s Jesus. There’s Jesus. So anyway, I’ll calm down a little bit here. I’m sorry, I got a little carried away.

[01:31:03] So he says there that they didn’t. Enter into the rest. He goes to verse four. He says, take care, brother. The King James says, Take heed, brothers.

[01:31:14] Lest there be any of you. Any. Of you and evil, unbelieving heart leading you to fall away from the living God. He’s not talking about salvation to be drawn, as he says, to be drawn away, as we saw in the very first of this, that we not drift away from those things that God has. Called us to do as believers, or.

[01:31:45] That God has promised us, or to understand the rest that we have in Him. He says, don’t turn away from the promises of God through unbelief. Numbers 2012 and the Lord spake to Moses and Aaron because you believed me. Not to sanctify me in the eyes. Of the children of Israel.

[01:32:06] Therefore, you shall not bring this congregation into the land which I’ve given them because of unbelief. They couldn’t enter into that rest that God has for us. But he says in verse 13 now. But exhort one another every day as long as is called today, that none of you may be hardened by the deceitfulness of sins. That’s why it’s so important that Paul.

[01:32:33] Talks about it so much. It’s important to encourage one another, exhort one another, admonish what, teach one another, lift one another up. Because we’re in this Promised Land and we’re protecting the battles, the borders, and we’re constantly being hit on every side by sin in every direction. And after a while, you’ll just have. A I just don’t know anymore.

[01:32:58] And you go into unbelief and you begin to doubt and you begin to wonder. And it hinders that fellowship that we have with God because of sin. This is the promised land I hope that’s real clear to you here. I don’t know that I.

[01:33:18] Could explain it much different.

[01:33:24] Mouth is getting dry. Okay, so we go to verse 14. For we have come to share Christ, if indeed we hold our original confidence firm. As he said to Dave, you’ll hear his voice harden not your heart. Says in the rebellion, once again, the if part there.

[01:33:45] This is if we continue in that faith, continue in our walk as we trust and we obey, and we go closer and closer to the Lord through the reading of His Word, through the encouragement of one another, through the hearing of the Word. That’s where our faith comes from, right? So if we continue in that we go into that Promised Land, that rest that he has for us, we’re doing okay. So where am I at? Verse 415?

[01:34:20] No, verse 16.

[01:34:24] I think verse verse. 14, again, was quoting Psalms 95.

[01:34:35] So verse 16.

[01:34:39] For who were those who heard and yet rebelled? Was it not those who left Egypt led by Moses? See, as I have my illustration, the example goes to you there who rebelled, those who were covered by the blood. In Egypt, those who were saved. Those are the ones who rebelled.

[01:35:05] It’s the Christians who rebelled through unbelief. And with whom was he provoked for 40 years? Was it not those who sinned, whose bodies fell in the wilderness, those believers that didn’t trust God, those ones that were covered by the blood in Egypt? And now they’ve gone in their Christian lock and because of unbelief. Now, that fellowship has been hindered, and.

[01:35:31] That fellowship has been I don’t want. To say exactly broken, but it is definitely hindered. And we’re not into that rest that God wants for us and has for us as believers.

[01:35:48] Let’s see verse 18. And to whom did he swear that they should never enter rest, but those who were disobedient. So we see that they were unable. To enter in because of unbelief. Remember we talked about, he’s holy brethren.

[01:36:05] He’s talking to believers. He’s telling what believers do. When we mix and we don’t believe and we don’t trust God in his promises, we neglect our so great salvation. We don’t enter into that rest that God has for us. Christ’s finished work on the cross is our salvation.

[01:36:32] He blot colossians. 214. He blot out the handwriting of ordinances. Was against us, which was contrary to us and took it out of the way. Nailing it to the cross, we are.

[01:36:45] Saved once and for all. But Jesus said here, he said, Come. Into me that labor and are heavy laden, and I will give you rest. He’s saying here to these Jesus was. When he was talking to the Jewish.

[01:37:01] Listeners there, hey, you are under the law. Y’all are doing this sacrificial system. Come to me. The one who is able, the one who is willing to be your kinsman. Redeemer to redeem you, to save you.

[01:37:20] Job talked about, I know my redeemer. Liveth and I will stand with Him. At the last day. I’m Him. Come to me.

[01:37:29] I’ll give you rest from the law, I’ll give you rest from all this sacrificial system in me. There is a rest if you’ll believe in me and put your trust into me. So we’ll try to get through some. Of four, maybe all, I don’t know. In the next 30 minutes, if there’s not any comments or questions, we’re doing pretty good.

[01:37:55] All right, verse four. Let us therefore I don’t know, anybody. Needs a break for anything, just do what you want to do. We’ll go into chapter four. Here, let me get that up.

[01:38:13] Did JD. Ever make it?

[01:38:18] I got my chat up. I haven’t seen him. Oh, wait till I talk to him.

[01:38:28] The sleepy head. I got it. I was concerned that he could make. It to all of them anyway, being. So early in the morning for him.

[01:38:35] I appreciate all he has done. So let’s go on to chapter four. And see how far we can get through that. He says, Therefore, while the promise of entering in his rest still stands, see. That it still stands for us today to enter into that rest.

[01:38:56] Let us fear, lest any of you. Should seem to have failed to reach. It.

[01:39:06] Again the context that Christ is superior hebrews, stop being Hebrew, stop going back to the law, stop going to these sacrificial systems and all this religious stuff. Christ has fulfilled that. It’s done. And if you keep going back to. That you have failed to understand.

[01:39:25] You failed to enter into that rest. Is that pretty clear to this point? See why the whole context of Hebrews. Is important for understanding all of Hebrews. It’s a letter.

[01:39:38] You can’t just I heard a guy. Say one time he picked up a great big old book and read one sentence out of it and say, now. Tell me what the book’s about. You can’t do that. This is not the Book of Hebrews is the same way.

[01:39:51] You’ve got to understand it all in context. So therefore, why the promise of entering. His rest still stands for us today. Let us fear, lest any should seem. To have failed to reach it.

[01:40:08] Let’s see. All right. I said that not to continue to go back and to continue in the Law. And the sacrifice for Good News came. To us just as to them, but.

[01:40:21] As the message they heard did not. Benefit them because they were not united. By faith with those who listened. For we who have believed, enter that rest. You see it.

[01:40:36] We believed, therefore we enter the rest. The blood was applied in Egypt. The promised land was the rest. Salvation was in Egypt. The victorious Christian life the resting in.

[01:40:50] Christ was the promised land he says. That very clearly there. For we who have believed past tense. We enter into a rest christ’s wrath. As I swore in my wrath, they.

[01:41:04] Shall not enter into my rest because. They didn’t believe, the promise they didn’t hold and continue in those promises that. God had promised him. All the works were finished from the foundations of the world. For he has somewhere spoken of the.

[01:41:21] 7Th day in this way. And God rested on the 7th day from all his works. Now, I’m getting way ahead of my notes here, but he’s talking about this good News proclaimed was no value to them because they didn’t share in the. Same faith in their walk, in their Christian walk. They kept going back and doing this.

[01:41:47] Old worrying about keeping the Law and. Mixing law and grace. He says, you can’t do that. It be being mixed with faith that hurt them. So those who left the Judaism, the sacrificial laws of the Law and the sacrificial system again going back to Galatians.

[01:42:11] He refers to that Galatians five one. He says, Stand fast, therefore, in the. Liberty wherewith Christ has made us free. He again is talking to believers who have been saved. He says, Stand fast in that that.

[01:42:27] Liberty that Christ has made you free and not be entangled again with the yoke of bondage. He’s referring to the law. Going back to the Law. Again. We see that in Acts 15 where they argued why therefore, tempt ye God.

[01:42:47] To put a yoke on the neck. Of the disciples which neither our fathers nor we were able to bear? They’re referring to the Law there. That’s what Paul was telling the Galatians in five one. And I believe that’s what he’s telling.

[01:43:01] Them here in verse two that it. Wasn’T just by faith. They weren’t resting in the finished work. Of Christ, so therefore, they didn’t enter into that rest. Verse three.

[01:43:18] No, I went on there. Well, I’ll go back to verse three. I read verse three. I’m sorry for he spake in a certain place. This is verse four of the 7th day, genesis two two is referring to Christian creation, when God created the heavens and the earth.

[01:43:35] And on the 7th day he said, it is all very good and God rested. John 1930 jesus says, It is finished. Salvation is complete. And then he sat down at the right hand of the Father. We saw that in Hebrews one three.

[01:43:54] This is the rest that God has. Created all things and rested. Jesus finished the work of salvation and. Sat down and rested is what I. Believe he’s talking about here and referring to in verse four.

[01:44:09] And in this place again, if they shall enter my rest. He said, but because of unbelief, you’re. Not entering into the rest. Basically, tell him again, stop being Hebrews, stop doing temple rituals and enter into the rest that Christ gives us through his finished work on the cross. Jesus is seated at the right hand of the Father rest in Him.

[01:44:38] Well, that’s good stuff. All right. So verse eight, I think, is where I’m at. Now again, he was quoting verse seven, Psalms 95, for Joshua had given them. For if Joshua had given them rest.

[01:44:57] God would not have spoken of another day. Later on.

[01:45:03] He says, there now listen. So then there remains a Sabbath rest for the people of God. See what I’m talking about there? We’re not talking about my salvation at the cross. That’s done.

[01:45:19] I believed, now he’s wanting me to enter into his rest. There remains a Sabbath rest for the people of God. Jesus, when they confronted the disciples who were picking some grain and eating on the Sabbath day.

[01:45:38] They questioned say, hey. They’Re doing this on the Sabbath. And what was Jesus reply? I am Lord of the Sabbath. I am the Sabbath.

[01:45:48] I am that Sabbath rest. So why the Jews were taught explicitly one day every week to observe a Sabbath rest. As Christians today, as Jesus, our Lord and Savior, being Lord of the Sabbath, we rest in him. So therefore we don’t enjoy a Sabbath day. We enjoy a Sabbath life.

[01:46:12] Every day I’m resting in him. Every day I’m looking to him. Every day I’m reading his word. Every day I’m having communion with him. Every day I can go into the holy of holies right in the very presence of God, through the blood of Jesus Christ, we live a Sabbath life.

[01:46:34] And I’ll leave that where it’s at. Some people worry about, oh, you’re keeping the Sabbath. Yes, I am keeping the Sabbath. Every day. Christ is my Sabbath.

[01:46:45] Rest. It was given to the Jews very explicit, very detailed, and God commanded it. To be so, because it pointed again. Once again to His Son. The rest we have in Christ.

[01:47:01] Be sure you give this an example to the rest of the world. He was telling them, now that Christ is done, completed his work on the cross, we rest in Him, the Lord of the Sabbath. So every day is the Sabbath rest. Okay, that’s all I will say about that. I get not frustrated, but wish people.

[01:47:21] Could see that so much more. The freedom and the liberties and the rest we have in Christ. Not just one day of the week, but every day of the week. All right, verse ten. For whosoever has entered in God’s rest through the blood of Jesus has also rested from his works, as did God from his.

[01:47:49] Again, he’s telling His Hebrew listeners, stop being Hebrews, stop doing tabernacle, temple worship and sacrifices. It’s done, it’s completed. I don’t know how these Torah keepers. Can read Hebrews and understand it and say you still got to keep the Torah.

[01:48:12] God’s law is written on my heart. I’m resting in the finished work of Christ and Him in me. The Holy Spirit indwelling me to fulfill what God has for me. I don’t need stone tablets written on the laws, written on tablets. They’re on my heart.

[01:48:33] I want to please him. I want to serve him. I want to obey him. Anyway, I’ll digress. Let us therefore verse eleven here, let me move over some.

[01:48:51] Let us therefore strive to enter that rest so that no. 1 may fall in the same sort of disobedience. Now. Here you go, Clint. I’m King James only, and a lot of people like the NIV.

[01:49:08] This is one reason why I don’t. The NIV says, let us therefore make. Every effort to enter that rest. The King James said to us, let. Us labor therefore to enter into that rest.

[01:49:21] Now, maybe I just can’t understand effort. And then it goes on to say, so that no one will perish in the NIV. The King James says, lest any of you fall after the same example of. Unbelief, that fall is to fall away. From the rest that he has to not enter into, as we saw in.

[01:49:44] Chapter three, the Promised Land. The rest that he has for us because of unbelief. It’s not laboring that we will perish and live in Hell for eternity. Maybe you all don’t see it, but when I read the NIV, that’s when no one will perish. That’s not what he’s talking about here.

[01:50:07] I don’t know why it was interpreted that way.

[01:50:15] The ASV I think is better described into their rest. So no. 1 may fall by the same sort of disobedience, fall away to not enjoy that rest that we have in Christ. So. As I said, I’ll just get off the NIV.

[01:50:33] It’s just not the context of what’s being said there in these Scriptures. It’s not talking about a salvation issue. It’s talking about the rest that we have in Christ. So salvation is by faith alone. And then he says, remember, let’s go back to ten.

[01:50:55] I forgot to bring out a point. He says, for he that enter into that rest also cease from his own works or labor. And then verse eleven. He says, therefore, let us. Labor.

[01:51:06] What’s he talking about? Verse ten, he’s talking about our salvation. We’ve ceased from there is no works for salvation. We are saved by grace through faith, faith alone. So there’s no labor to be done.

[01:51:21] There, but the labor comes once we. Have believed, the labor becomes to enter into that rest, to that promised land. That victorious Christian life that God has for us by being obedient to Him. And having faith in the promises that. He promised us to enter into that rest.

[01:51:43] That’s what the labor is for, not to enter into salvation. So I hope that’s clear. I saw a lot of stuff come up and make sure I’m not missing a question.

[01:51:57] NASB says, good, I like that better, but I can’t go with no one will perish. I just don’t think that fits the context of what the writer is saying here in Hebrews.

[01:52:12] And no creature, verse 13, is hidden from his sight, but all are naked. And exposed to the eyes of whom to whom we must give an account.

[01:52:26] Remember that too. Remember when I said the teacher says. Remember this, you’ll see it again, hebrews 610. He says, God is not going to forget your labor of love. In other words, what he’s saying here is God sees all that we do.

[01:52:42] He knows all that everything about us is exposed to the eyes of God. And so don’t let any all creatures. Are let’s see, neither is there any creature that is not manifest in his. Sight, but all things are open to the eyes of Him whom we have to do. This is God sees all and knows all.

[01:53:09] Not going to forget our labors of love, not going to forget our unbelief, not going to forget how we treat one another in Christ. He sees those things and he holds us accountable to those things. Not talking about salvation, we’re talking about the beam of cedar, of Christ, the. Judgment seat, the beam of seat of. Christ where we are given reward for what we do.

[01:53:35] I won’t get into that. And again, it’s not our lesson, but that’s just sort of a picture of that to me. So, verse 14, we got just a few more minutes. Since then we have a great high priest who has passed from the heavens, jesus, the Son of God. Let us hold fast our confession.

[01:53:54] So we’re seeing all that he’s done, all that he has for us. And he’s mentioned earlier about being a high priest and he says we have a great high priest. Again, these Hebrew listeners would fully understand. What he’s talking about. Here we have a high priest.

[01:54:12] What the high priest do for him? He made the daily, made the offerings for sins once a year, made the offering for sin on the day of Atonement, and went into the presence of. God for us or for the children of Israel on one day of the year, again, pointing to Christ but we have access through Jesus, the Son of God. Let us hold fast to that. We have access right to the throne of God through the blood of Jesus.

[01:54:47] Our Great High Priest, not an earthly priest. We’ll get into that some more as the writer continues to write the comparison once again against heaven and earthly things. So I think we’re going to do this for we have not a High. Priest I’m sorry, let me go back to the ESV. For we do not have a High.

[01:55:11] Priest who is unable to sympathize with our weaknesses, but one who is in. Every respect has been tempted as we. Are, yet without sin. The High Priest that understands despite us. Our great High Priest knows us.

[01:55:34] He’s identified with us. He’s our kinsman redeemer. He became man. He was tested in every point as we are. He knows our infirmities, our weaknesses, and he can fully identify with us as he goes before the throne of God.

[01:55:51] As our mediator.

[01:55:56] To make a stand for us that he died for our. Sins before the Father, okay? Wherefore in all things it behooved Him to be made like unto the brethren, that he might be merciful and faithful high Priest and things pertain to God. To make reconciliation for the sins of the people. That’s what it said in Hebrews 217.

[01:56:21] This is what Christ has done for us. And now I love this next verse, one of my favorite verses. Let us then with confidence draw near. To the throne of grace, that we. May receive mercy and find grace to.

[01:56:37] Help in a time of need. The king James. I know I’ve got to do it. Let us therefore come boldly because of. What Christ has done for us on the cross.

[01:56:51] We no longer have to just stay in this outer court as they understood. He is telling these Hebrew listeners, we have a High Priest that’s in the heavens for us. We no longer have to sit in the outer court and watch and wonder what’s going on inside and wish we could go with a High Priest into. The Holy of Holies, to the Ark. Of the Covenant and apply the blood on the mercy seat and see the Shakina glory come down.

[01:57:19] He’s saying, we have that now in Christ. Come boldly to that throne of grace. That we will find help in the time of need. That is the Christian walk, that is. The victorious Christian life, knowing we can rest in his finished and completed work on the cross.

[01:57:43] And we come boldly to the throne of God and present ourselves to Him, make our petitions known unto Him, crawl up in his lap and cry, Abba Father. And we find grace to help in. Our time of need. We did it. We did it.

[01:58:01] We did it. I’m going to stop right there. I think we got four minutes. If y’all have some questions or comments or things that I’ve said that you. Don’T quite understand, just let me know.

[01:58:14] This is your time.

[01:58:24] Had a good turnout tonight.

[01:58:29] All right, y’all, don’t be bashful. You can talk.

[01:58:38] God bless. I hope you all have seen Jesus tonight. That’s what I want you to see.

[01:58:46] Yeah, I’ll unmute there. Yeah. No, beautifully done. All right. That was great.

[01:58:50] That was very insightful. I liked it. Amen, brother. Praise the Lord. Thank you.

[01:59:03] It’s going to get better and better. As we go through this. And I know I’m taking a lot. Of time with us, but if we. Can get the whole context of Hebrews when we get to those hard parts in chapter six and chapter ten and.

[01:59:17] Some of those others, I’m hoping by. The time we get there, you’ll be saying, wow, I have not never seen that before. I fully understand what those verses are. Saying now, if you get the cold context of Hebrews.

[01:59:33] Okay, thanks.

[01:59:43] All right. Thank you all for being here tonight. And I’ll stay on here as long. As you want to. We’ll be back next Saturday night at 08:00, and we’ll try to go through chapter five, and I may try to chapter six, you all know, and I.

[02:00:01] Guess this is probably the pivot point. For a lot of people. They want to get to chapter six. What are we going to say about chapter six? I’ll probably breeze through chapter five next week and try to leave as much time as I can on chapter six.

[02:00:17] Because there’s a lot to cover. There’s a lot of different views to cover. And as we look at those different views and dissect them out, I hope that the Holy Spirit reveals to you exactly what all that means. So maybe we’ll do chapters five and six next week as far as we can.

[02:00:47] Hey, Chris, can I put you on. The spot and ask you to just close us out in prayer and then we can hang around and talk whatever you want to do. Would you mind doing that, sir? Yeah, let me get away from my fan so you all can hear me. Hold on.

[02:01:01] All right, thank you.

[02:01:06] All right, if you all are ready, I’ll start. Father, thank you for the evening that we’ve had in the Bible study over Hebrews. There’s such a wealth of knowledge in this book, and I’m just thankful for Kenny and his efforts in explaining it and making it easy for us to understand. I pray that you’ll just continue to bless him and the study and that you will give us knowledge and application to what we learn and what we read throughout this book of Hebrew. Lord, just bless our time together and bring us back safely next week so we can continue in your word.

[02:01:46] In Jesus name, amen. Thank you, sir. God bless you. Thank you again. Hang around as long as you want.

[02:01:53] I see a question here, I think. Yes, they look to the high priest. For everything that was their go between them and God. And for thousands of years they did that. That’s why they struggle so hard.

[02:02:12] Now I have access, now I can do that. And you see their struggle mean, as. I said last can’t, you can’t hardly get a Baptist to move a piano. Across the stage, let alone put down everything they’ve ever done and just put. Their full trust in Jesus Christ.

[02:02:38] Do y’all hear me? I can now. Great stuff, man. Praise the Lord. Thank you, sir.

[02:02:51] Thank you. Clint. Yeah. I warned you about the case. I’m sorry, guys, I’m just a KJV.

[02:02:59] I understand it. And you read ESV. Praise the Lord. If you read NASB KJV or the. New King James, that’s fine.

[02:03:09] I say read what you’re going to read. Don’t not read the word of God. That’s not good English. But don’t not read it because you. Just struggle with the wording of it.

[02:03:20] The Holy Spirit is going to reveal. The truth to you in it. I’m not sure he can do it through NIV, but no, I’m kidding. But God will reveal himself to you in his word. But I like the King James version.

[02:03:36] I think it puts emphasis on things. That just. Now to Him that is able to do exceedingly abundantly that verse. A lot of people are like, wow, we don’t even talk that way. That’s crazy.

[02:03:48] But what that’s saying is to him that is able to do above all that we think. In other words, whatever you can just. Dream of in your wildest dreams, god. Can do better than that. And some of the other versions, to me, kind of just sort of water.

[02:04:02] That down a little bit.

[02:04:09] Any other comments? I’ll shut up and let you all talk or ask questions. Thank you all for being here today. Well, from what I understand, you can’t quite catch the essence of the meaning of the words with the English language, with the ETH at the end, right? Yeah.

[02:04:31] I don’t know. It’s what I’ve been told. Okay. With the other know, like Christina, what I’m talking about.

[02:04:45] Okay, never mind. No, that’s not I’m sorry, I was reading something when you said that. Say that one more time. Let me I said I’ve been told. That the King James version with the ETH on the ends of the words, you can’t quite catch the same meaning with anything else in any of the other versions.

[02:05:11] If you say believe rather than believeth. Yes.

[02:05:19] Okay. I don’t know. Maybe so. I know Cam up there, he’s being. Quiet is pretty not, I’ll tell you.

[02:05:32] I know how we got our Bible. And a lot of the translation up. But I am not an expert in that area. I personally have not ever had a. Problem if I read believe or believe it.

[02:05:46] I’ve never had a difficulty understanding that that I’m aware of. But maybe somebody else can enlighten me on that.

[02:06:01] I don’t know. Anytime I get on my Logos program, if I do a side by side, I usually have my NASB 95, and then I’ll have the KJV right beside it. That’s usually the two I’ll compare when I do that.

[02:06:23] Okay. Because. I grew up with the KJV in my dad’s house, so that’s always one I like to go back to for sure. With cross reference and everything, right? Yeah.

[02:06:40] And I do as well, I guess. I grew up on the King James, and like I said, I memorize it. Have no problem reading it, but there. Are a lot of times I’ll use. The ESV, and I even use that.

[02:06:54] Heathen translation, which I don’t call it a translation. I call it more of a commentary, the message. Sometimes I’ll even go to that, just. See what he says.

[02:07:06] Yeah, the message Bible, it’s a paraphrase, right? Yeah. It’s not really a translation, but it’s good sometimes to help you get a. Grasp of how to say it or what’s being said. Right, correct.

[02:07:31] When it comes to these English translations, one thing we got to remember is the message of the text is what’s most important. Every translation is going to phrase something a tad bit different. That’s called textual imitation, when the translators will make a decision to translate something a certain way. And sometimes it’s not even based on other places of the text. It’s just based on how it would be said in a modern context or a contemporary.

[02:08:15] To. I think Monique said, or maybe it was curious, she was saying they read from multiple translations, and that is a good thing. That’s what I do when I want to show other ways of rendering something. Otherwise, you all know me, man. I’m going to read the phrase in the Greek, and then I’m going to.

[02:08:33] Parse the words right. And I don’t know how y’all feel. But there’s Daniel Wallace. I don’t know if you’re familiar with him. He has spent his life with the.

[02:08:47] Translations and transcripts, and I like to listen to him. And he was asked one time, what translation would you prefer? And he said, well, depends on what. You want to know. If you want more poetry, go to the King James.

[02:09:03] What does he mean by that depends on what you want to do? Well, he’s talking about not do you want to translate it differently or get a different meaning? But he’s saying, like, the King James is more poetic in its writing, where other translations are more up to the. English or something like, you know, I’m kind of with him. I don’t just stick to one translation.

[02:09:31] And I don’t want to get into arguing over, oh, it’s King James only, or it’s this or it’s that, or the King James didn’t have the original manuscripts. Well, be honest. Nobody has the original manuscripts. Right? Yeah, not the originals, but it’s not even a big deal.

[02:09:51] That what they mean to say is they didn’t have manuscripts in general. What they did have was printed editions. But even though that’s the case, it doesn’t matter that’s what was available and they used them, you know what I’m saying? Like, why would they not use them. You know what I mean?

[02:10:05] Exactly. They’re printed editions. They were still the original language.

[02:10:13] So that’s what’s most. I was just. Doing a Hermeneutics class yesterday and they were saying since that the originals were written on Papyri, they had to be like the way they prepared it to beat these leaves and stuff like that. After a long amount of time, they would disintegrate into nothingness. So it would be completely impossible for anyone to have 2000 year old, you know what I’m saying.

[02:10:49] All the transcripts and that this Dr. Wallace points out. There are, I forget how many thousands. Of discrepancies he says, but not one. Of them change the meaning of the text.

[02:11:04] Right. Most of them are just punctuation things or whatever. And he said it’s great that we. Have all that because in all that. It all comes up with the same.

[02:11:18] Meaning and he compares it to officer or investigator doing an investigation. If all the people he interviews has the same story, he says somebody’s lying. But if they all sort of point. To the same general idea of what. Happened but are different stories, then we see that there’s probably truth in that, right?

[02:11:42] And he says that’s what we have. With all the transcripts, you have all. These different things punctuation this and that, but they all tell the exact same story. The doctrine is the same. So I’m not going to get upset about somebody that something other than James, right?

[02:12:05] Hey, read what’s comfortable for as long as it ain’t the Passion translation, the Queen James translation, the New World translation, or the Joseph Smith translation. As long as it ain’t one of.

[02:12:24] Think to me that’d be questionable if that’s even a translation. Some of those are even translations. Oh, they are, brother, they are really? They’re twisted translations, but they’re fictitious ones. But yeah, man, joseph Smith has his own.

[02:12:48] Not only does he have the Book of Mormon, because the Book of Mormon is a totally different book, but he also has the Joseph Smith translation and he adds a bunch of stuff to things in the Old Testament. He inserts himself in certain places in the New Testament, like as if he was prophesied to come. Yeah, it’s crazy, right? It’s crazy. Anyway, I didn’t mean to get into all that with the translations.

[02:13:20] I’ll leave that to somebody smarter than me. But.

[02:13:25] I hope that as far as. Our studies going through this, that like. I said, if anybody’s got any comments. Or questions or anything like that, we’ll just.

[02:13:37] Cool. Thank you all again for being here. I thoroughly enjoy this and doing this and trying to help. I see so much in it and. Then I want others to see it.

[02:13:53] Too, and see Jesus in these scriptures.

[02:14:05] I’m going to call JD and tell him to get out of bed.

[02:14:18] Was this 2 hours too much for you all tonight? Was it good? Went by pretty quick for me, but I’m steadily talking.

[02:14:31] Okay, good. Perfect. Praise the Lord.

[02:14:55] Anything else? Like I said, I’ll stay here as long as you want to, but if not, I got to preach in the morning and get ready for tomorrow and enjoy this time. We all love to having fellowship, love being with people that are hungry for. The Word and want to learn. That’s awesome to me.

[02:15:29] All right, well, if there’s nothing else, God bless y’all. Chris has prayed us out. I’m going to head on. Y’all can stay here and talk if you want to. Y’all talk about me and I’ll just leave so you can talk.

[02:15:43] Okay. We’ll talk nice about all right, good. I always say people talking about me ain’t got much to talk about. So there you go.

[02:15:55] Y’all have a good night. God bless. Thank you. Thank you.

[02:16:07] That’s true, too. Clint? Yeah.

[02:16:23] I think I went through, like, eight different what, Chris? Was it like eight different missionary girls in a period of six months? Yeah, we had fun with those. Yeah. They wouldn’t talk to us too long, because if whoever they’re trying to convert starts making sense, then they change up the missionaries so that they don’t get converted out of Mormonism.

[02:16:52] Yeah, that’s what we think.

[02:17:03] Oh, yeah. They’re dedicated, Clint, to their cause, by all means, but yeah, to me, you really have to twist scripture to make the Mormon Bible or whatever make sense, so, yeah, it’s neat to just sit there and listen to how they do all that. I would say this about Mormonism, though. If Evangelicals and Protestants were half as dedicated to them, half of this country be saved right now. Yes, they would.

[02:17:45] I have never seen as people as dedicated as they are.

[02:17:54] They’re good people, too. Yeah. What did you say? They’re good people, too.

[02:18:04] They help people move out of their apartment. The LDS Church here in my town, they rent out four apartments in this apartment complex I live in. And they’re always helping people move in and move out and making food baskets for new move ins and turkey baskets for Thanksgiving for needy families in this complex. I mean, they’re good people, very generous.

[02:18:42] The missionaries are also very poor and hungry. They’re only given like, 100 and something dollars a month to eat on.

[02:18:54] The LDF missionaries? Yes. Really? Yeah. Unless they’ve changed it the past two years.

[02:19:03] Yeah.

[02:19:12] That surprises me. As much money as they take in.

[02:19:19] It’S because it’s about the money they keep most of it, I think, but that’s just my opinion. That part that I don’t know. That’s just my opinion. Yeah.

[02:19:32] I was watching a news special. I don’t know if it was on. ABC or CBS, and this guy was like a whistleblower about the Mormon Church, about how they spend their money. And he says, it’s incredible how much money the Mormon Church makes. And he says it’s almost like Catholic Church money.

[02:20:02] And that just blew me away because I didn’t think they were that the Mormon Church was that strong in finances. They are. Yeah. So I don’t know if you can see the comments in the chat, but Clint said, wow, that explains it. I invited them over for dinner to discuss more, and they ate some food and is it tea?

[02:20:27] She said, Tell me about it. We invited them for dinner one night, and they ate three servings and took home leftovers. So yeah, they yeah.

[02:20:44] It’S cracked me up. They call themselves Elder they’re and they’re not old.

[02:20:52] Yes. And they’re part of the priesthood of Aaron and Melchizedek. Yes.


[00:00:00] Well, some more may come in, but I guess we’re going to get started. We’ve got a lot to cover tonight and maybe JD will join us here in a little bit and I hope and we’ll go from there. So I’m just going to open us with a word of prayer and we’ll get going in it. Father, now as we come to you and to study Your Word again, we just thank you for each one that’s joined. I pray, Father, now that as we look into Your Word, that the Holy Spirit would just reveal all truth to us and give us understanding, to open our eyes and ears, to see clearly and to understand Your Word.

[00:00:37] We just pray, Father, that all that we said and done do will be done to glorify you and to magnify Jesus. Just be with us now in these next few minutes as we study together. In Jesus name I pray. Amen. All right, we finished up Chapter Four last week, and I don’t know about this Bible bot thing they were saying last week is having a hard time keeping up with me, but this week is probably going to put it in overload because I tried to get as many Scripture references as possible to really drive home the different things in the Scripture.

[00:01:24] But first I want to start in chapter five and we’ll go through these verses, the first few verses rather briefly because we’ll be discussing it again after tonight. So we’ll go into it a little bit deeper. But again, if you have any questions or something you don’t understand, just let me know and we’ll try to make it a little bit clear. So up to this point, the writer of Hebrews, which some think is Paul, and if it wasn’t Paul, it definitely had to be someone very close to him that they were very much of like same mind that did this. So he mentions up to this point that Jesus is or has become our High Priest.

[00:02:15] And in doing so, he fulfilled all the requirements that God demands for righteousness and that through Him and his work on the cross, we can come boldly into the Holy of Holies or before the throne of grace, that we would be found righteous in his sight. As I said, we do this through the finished work of Christ in his death, burial and resurrection. Chapter four, verse 16. Let us therefore come boldly to the throne of grace that we may obtain mercy to find help, to find grace, to help in the time of need.

[00:02:56] I love how Hebrews, the writer of Hebrews, just sort of at the end of each section, just sort of gives you a little snippet of what’s fixing to come or what’s that’s Southern, isn’t it? Fixing what’s going to come up in the next, what he’s going to discuss next. So he is talking about the High priest. So we see here in chapter five, the writer is almost anticipating the Hebrew response from his last statement that Jesus has become our high priest and fulfilled all those duties and all the demands once again for righteousness. And so a Hebrew listen is remember we said that this is written to the Hebrews telling them to stop being Hebrews and acting like Hebrews.

[00:03:52] They already are probably just beside themselves that he has compared him to Moses and said he’s better than Moses and that would have just put him in a tailspin. But now he’s saying there he’s a high priest and is going to go on to say that he’s even better than the high priest and the work of the high priest. And he’s anticipating their response, I think here in chapter five and on chapter seven and eight, that how could Jesus become a high priest? That’s not possible. I mean, Jesus is another tribe of Judah, not of the Levites, and he didn’t fulfill all the priestly things that we require.

[00:04:36] That’s written in the law. So they’re trying to understand how he could become a high priest. Well, he starts to explain that and go through that. And like I said, the next ten verses, we’re going to go through them pretty quick because we will get into them deeper in chapter seven and eight. But I want to try to allow as much time as possible for us to go through chapter 511, through chapter six, pretty much.

[00:05:04] So he starts out in verse one, for every high priest chosen from among men is appointed to act on behalf of men in relation to God, to offer gifts and sacrifices for sin. Now, if you don’t know, if you haven’t joined us, I’m reading this out of the ESV because that’s what most of them said they had. I will switch back and forth to King James and different things, but this is the ESV. And what he’s really saying here in this verse is this was the duties of the high priest, that they were to act on behalf of men in relation to God and to offer gifts and sacrifices for their sins. That’s the duties of the high priest.

[00:05:48] And then in verse two, he can deal gently with the ignorant and the wayward since he himself is beset with weaknesses, he’s talking about what the high priest does. And the high priest could associate or relate to those he presented before God because he also was just like them. And verse three, because of this, he is obligated to offer sacrifices for his own sins, just as he does for those of the people, as the high priest would offer the sacrifices for the sins of the people. He understood fully that he himself was a sinner who needed cleansing as well. Like I said, I’ll make many references to the tabernacle, but in the outer court you come into the eastern gate and you had the Brazen altars.

[00:06:41] The first thing you came to. And then the next piece of furniture was the labor. And in that labor it was a bronze bowl shaped thing, I guess, that had water in it. And then the bottom of it was we’re just getting started, Trevor. No problem.

[00:07:05] Just on verse three, really, of chapter five. So in this labor was polished bronze that the ladies gave of the Israelites, and they polished it to a mirror finish. The idea is there as the high priest would go and wash his hands for cleansing and his feet for cleansing. As he went about his daily duties as a high priest, he would look down in this labor to wash his hands. He would see himself.

[00:07:39] So not only did the people need cleansing, but it was a constant reminder every time he went to that labor that I need cleansing, too. And that’s a picture of the word of God. The labor, as we look into the word of God I don’t look into the Word of God and say, wow, my wife needs to hear this. I look into the word of God and say, wow, I need this. This is for me.

[00:08:05] We shouldn’t be reading God’s Word to try to bring everything on everybody else. God’s Word speaks to us and points out what we need to change, what we need to be in the eyes of God. So these mirrors would point that out to the there you go. There’s a good picture there. You come in through the gate at the bottom there and the Brazen altar.

[00:08:25] And then the next thing was labor. Thank you. You could do pictures like that. And then you go into the tabernacle itself. The area outside there was the outer court, and then the big tent thing in the middle had two sections the Holy Place and the Holy of Holies.

[00:08:44] So this labor is what I was talking about here. That made the high priest a constant reminder every day, all day, of his need for cleansing as well. So, verse three, he was obligated to offer sacrifices for his own sins. And this was a constant reminder. And no one just takes his honor for himself, but only when he’s called by God, just as Aaron was.

[00:09:09] So no one ever became a high priest who was not called of God. God appointed the high priest. That might be a good lesson for a lot of people today that think they want to become teachers and preachers and stuff. That is a calling. That’s not a self appointment.

[00:09:25] That’s not a job we do to build a resume. That is a calling from God. And I guess as a pastor now, I’ve worked many different jobs in my life, but this is the first one I’ve ever felt that I just can’t quit. It’s not up to me. God called me.

[00:09:44] God will take me out of the way or take me out of this when he’s ready. So it’s just a different attitude when God calls you about it. Now we come on to verse five. Is Jesus is called by God to be our high priest, is what he’s pointing out to these Hebrew listeners. So also, Christ did not exalt himself to be made a high priest.

[00:10:08] Was appointed by Him who said to Him, you are my son today I have begotten you. And as he said in another place, for you are a priest forever after the order of Melchizedek. Oh, there’s a new would as they would listen and or read this letter or listen to this sermon, Melchizedek. We know who Melchizedek is. Abraham dealt with Melchizedek, and we will talk about that in chapter seven and eight more of who Melchizedek was and how Jesus is compared to Him.

[00:10:45] So he’s quoting here, Psalms 110 four.

[00:10:51] So in verse seven, in the days of his flesh, that’s when Jesus became man.

[00:11:00] God became man, come in the flesh, as we saw before in our previous chapters, where Jesus became man to identify with us, to be our kinsman, redeemer, to die for our sins on the cross, he became flesh. Jesus offered up prayers and supplication with loud cries and tears to Him who was able to save him from death. And he was heard because of his reference. Although he was a Son, he learned the obedience through what he suffered. Now, the first thing that comes to my mind when I read that is the garden of Gethsemane.

[00:11:40] And the prayer when he prayed and his sweat became as great drops of blood and crying out to the Father, oh, Father, if it be possible, let this cup pass for me nevertheless. Not my will, but thy will be done. Jesus is praying earnestly, and I believe he prayed earnestly to the Father all through his ministry and brought things before Him and did what the Father told him to do. So Jesus in his humanity, experienced what obedience to God was like from a man’s perspective or point of view. I don’t know if there’s any better term I could use there that this was something, I think, up to this point that God the Son didn’t ever I don’t know if I’m I hope I’m saying this right.

[00:12:37] I don’t want to confuse you didn’t really know obedience like a man’s perspective until he became man. So it wasn’t that he okay, I got to be obedient to God the Father. I learned it. No, he’s been obedient from all creation, all times past, for eternity. But as far as being man in the flesh and understanding and seeing obedience, jesus was experiencing this as a man.

[00:13:08] So I think as he walked on the earth, I believe he was grieved by the effects of what sin has caused. Philippians two eight. And being found in the fashion of man, he humbled himself and became obedient unto the death, unto death, even the death on the cross. So even he’s prayed, Father, if it be possible, take this cup from me nevertheless, not my will, but Thy will be done. I don’t believe for a minute that Jesus was saying, don’t let me die for the sins of the world.

[00:13:43] I think he was saying, if there be another way that I can pay for the sins of the world, or there’s several different views on this, but he just surrendered himself to saying, father, whatever you want to do, whichever way you want it to go, you do it according to your will and not my will. As a man or in the flesh. So I believe, as he prayed out, there was more from a human perspective than from the God man perspective, I guess, if I can say that, I hope that doesn’t confuse anyone. So in Matthew 26 39 and he went a little further and fell on his face and prayed, o my Father, if it be possible, let this cup pass from me nevertheless not my will, but Thy will be done. That’s the one I was quoting there, matthew 26 39.

[00:14:37] But he was obedient to the Father’s will and being verse nine five nine and being made perfect, he became the source of eternal salvation to all whom believed Him, who obeyed Him. Excuse me again. He didn’t become perfect. I’ve heard a lot of people yeah, see, Jesus said he finally became perfect. No, the word perfect there, the strong reference is 50 48 and means complete or accomplished.

[00:15:11] He completed the work or the source, I guess, of eternal salvation by all who would obey Him, because he was the perfect lamb of God to die for the sins of the world. He was the author and finisher of our faith, as we saw in Hebrews 210, for it became Him for whom all things and by whom all things, in bringing many sons unto glory to make the captain of their salvation perfect through suffering. There it is again, that 50 48. It’s complete or accomplished. Through his suffering, he accomplished or completed the work of salvation.

[00:15:59] So being designated or called, as it made a reference up earlier in verse five, being called of God, or being designated or called by God, a High Priest after the order of Melchizedek. So once again, he introduces Melchizedek here and he wants to go on and continue. What is this melchizedek about? How can Jesus be our high priest? How can all this take place?

[00:16:37] And then he starts verse eleven, which I think ties into chapter six. A lot of back and forth between the two chapters about this. We have much to say about how Jesus is our high Priest, how he’s after the order of Melchizedek. Well, I’d love to tell you a lot about that is what the writer is saying here. And it’s hard to explain, it’s difficult, as we’re going to see in chapter six and forward, there are some things it’s hard to explain and you got to be having a good understanding.

[00:17:13] But he said it’s hard to explain why since you have become dull of hearing. So now we have a problem. The Word is not the problem, it’s the listeners. Many wanted to say God’s Word cannot be understood sometimes, but in most cases it’s not the reader or not the Word that’s the problem. But the reader, the one trying to understand the Word he talks about.

[00:17:40] And we’ll see in chapter six, verse twelve, he tells them not to be slothful or not to be lazy or ignorant of these things that you’re dull of hearing. For though verse twelve, for though by this time you ought to be teachers, you need someone to teach you again the basic principles of the oracles of God. You need milk, not solid food. I told my church when we went through this, basically what he’s saying is, guys, you’re still sucking on the bottle and I’m trying to feed you steak and you guys can’t handle steak because you’re still sucking on a bottle over here. You haven’t grown up in your Christian walk, you haven’t matured, you’re still dull of hearing.

[00:18:26] Verse 13 for everyone who lives on milk is unskillful than the Word for righteousness since he was a child. Word of righteousness since he was a child. So as I said a few weeks ago, you come into this tabernacle, into the outer court and at the Brazen altar, that’s the point of salvation. And you dabble in your Bible a little bit at the labor and you’re just happy you’ve got fire insurance and on your way to heaven. You’re not skillful in the Word, you’re not learning and moving on, as we’ll see in the next chapter, to move on to maturity of all that God has for you.

[00:19:05] And then he’s telling these Hebrew listeners this. You don’t understand fully how someone is made righteous in the eyes of God and how to live this Christian life because you’re still drinking milk and you’re not digging into the meatier things. We’re going to get into some very meaty things tonight. I believe this verse probably refers back to chapter four when the writer speaks of entering into God’s rest, that you’re still on the bottle here and you’re worried about this and you’re worried about that and different things and you don’t fully understand all that Christ did for you on the cross, that it is finished. There is nothing else to you’re at unrest because of unbelief or uncertainty.

[00:20:01] And we talked about that last week as the rest that a believer enters into through the finished work of Christ, that we cease from our works of righteousness or for working for righteousness. I believe this is what Jesus was talking about when he said, come unto me all ye that labor and are heavy laden, and I will give you rest laboring. All the laws and the burdens to keep them. He says, come to me, I fulfill that and I will give you rest from that. And that’s important for us to understand in our study tonight, that rest that he gives us.

[00:20:43] And those things that they were doing, remember for thousands of years have gone back and forth, back and forth, and done sacrifices and done the law, and now all of a sudden Jesus has come. He’s better than angels, he’s better than Moses, he’s better than Adam, he’s better than all the prophets, he’s better than a high priest. He is superior and he is enough, and you don’t need to do this anymore. So they are struggling with this. He says, I’ll finish verse 14 of chapter five.

[00:21:18] But solid food is for the mature, for those who have their power of discernment. Trained by constant practice to distinguish good from evil, mature Christians are constantly studying the word of God and learning to listen to the Holy Spirit, to help them to see right from wrong. Two Timothy two study to show thyself approved unto God, a workman that needs not to be ashamed. Rightly. Dividing the word of truth.

[00:21:47] It is important that we are in the word of God to study, to mature, to grow in our Christian faith. So with that, now we’ll go into chapter six. And as I said, I believe those few verses tie right in with chapter six he’s saying there from about verse, I think number verse eleven or twelve on into chapter six. He goes right into it, therefore but before we get to that point, I know chapter six is a very controversial subject for us today. I’m not so sure how controversial it would have been for them in that time because he was speaking their language, things they understood.

[00:22:35] As I said, he’s pointed out to this point that Christ is God. He’s the creator of all things, he is eternal, he’s superior to angels, he’s better than Adam, he’s better than Moses, all the prophets, and he’s even a better high priest. Christ is superior. Which remember, is our theme as we go through this chapter. Our theme is Christ is superior than anything they knew.

[00:23:04] Christ is superior. He is enough. So then in chapter six through ten, we saw that in chapters one through five of what he explained about the angels and prophets and high priests. Not now. He’s almost like going into a deeper subject.

[00:23:22] In chapter six through ten, he begins to explain what all the temple worship is about, what was the purpose of it, and how Christ is even superior to that, that he fulfilled that and is superior to that. So this passage of Scripture, as I said, has been one of the most controversial passages in the New Testament, if not the entire Bible. And I understand that tonight. So because of that, many people live in unrest or uncertainty because of difficulty in understanding what the writer is trying to explain to these Hebrew listeners. So my goal tonight is to show you the different views on this passage, or at least the views that I’m aware of, and I’ll go ahead and do this disclaimer.

[00:24:17] I don’t know if JD’s come in or not. I don’t know if he’s here, maybe not. But yeah, it’s a good thing I’m glad you come in because I was about to just discredit you altogether.

[00:24:37] Yeah, just before you start this one, hebrews chapter six is definitely where most people go to try and debunk eternal security for one. But again, no doubt there with what you just said, probably one of the most controversial passages, Hebrews six, and then obviously Hebrews Ten as well. But just to go back to something you mentioned, in Hebrews five, we see two. I did put the strongs in the Chat 548, which is Tellio. But the awesome part is when you get to verse 14, where you just mentioned the meat, and the phrase used there by the author is TeLEOS.

[00:25:28] So teleo is used to refer to Christ, and TeLEOS is referred to us. The meat belongs to them that are full of age, that have come of age. And the difference between teleo and TeLEOS is the TeLEOS applies to us in the sense that we become complete in our applications, our labor, our growth, our mental and moral character. That’s just always something that really stuck out to me, is that there’s two different versions. We see the completeness that refers to Christ as our God, and we see the Completeness that refers to men as we grow.

[00:26:12] And this is ultimately what we say to those who are young in the faith, that as long as you are seeking, as we see in Luke, if you seek, you will find. If you knock, the door will be opened. And this is ultimately, again, the completeness that comes in us as we pursue Christ is why some people can’t just they try, ultimately go straight for the jugular, get into the meats of Scripture, and ultimately they get tossed to and fro because they don’t understand the meat. And we see a lot of that on social media, unfortunately. But again, this is just a beautiful way to read Hebrews if you understand what he’s saying to them in chapter five.

[00:26:59] And if people actually understood, like Kenny beautifully explained chapter five to us. Now, if people actually understood chapter five, then chapter six makes a lot more sense. But without me rambling on any further, this is awesome. Thanks, Pastor Kenny. I’ll go back to no, no problem.

[00:27:18] Thank you, JD. I was just getting ready to say that in my disclaimer here, I have listened to a lot of different people describe this and explain these passages. And I may differ. I know I differ from several people. I don’t know that I’ve ever really heard JD take on it, or Mike’s take.

[00:27:45] I think I’m a little different than him. But what I don’t want is a big debate. I don’t want to go into who’s wrong and who’s right since this has been argued for decades and probably will be argued till Jesus returns. Hopefully not. Maybe we’ll get a grasp on it or better grasp on it.

[00:28:09] But I know we can differ and I don’t see that there’s any problem in differing on some things. As long as we all agree in the way that we are saved and that we are saved eternally.

[00:28:27] Well, I’ll get into the loss of salvation, but I believe JD and Mike and all, they don’t believe we can lose our salvation. And I think that’s very important. I’ve heard people say, oh, that’s not really a salvific issue if I ain’t saying that right. But I kind of differ on that. If you can’t believe that Jesus is enough and saved you and can keep you, then are you really fully trusting in Jesus?

[00:28:56] So that’s my take on it. And to be honest with you, if I say something that you disagree with or you’ve heard Mike say that disagrees with, again, we can discuss it. I don’t want to go in a debate over it and I don’t definitely want you to hear this tonight and say, go to Mike or somebody. Kenny said you’re wrong. No, kenny might be wrong.

[00:29:23] Kenny doesn’t claim to know. Just I think it’s just where we both are in our understanding of Scripture. If you disagree with a viewpoint, I would ask you tonight to hear the entire teaching before you make a conclusion of the matter. Because, again, not that I know everything, but I have wrestled with this portion of Scripture for probably 25 or 30 years. I’ve had different viewpoints than I have today.

[00:29:54] And the viewpoints that I had, I never got a piece about. So I kept digging and kept digging and kept digging until where I’m at today is where I have the most peace about what I believe the writer is telling these Hebrews listeners. So I think it fits and we’ll go through that and maybe you’ll see where I’m at. If not, then I understand that. And I still love you, and I hope you love me because this is so controversial.

[00:30:27] I just feel like I need to say that. But the fact that there is so much confusion and fear many find in this passage that ought to tell you something. The devil is behind the fear and the confusion and he wants to hinder us from understanding what’s going on here. The devil’s a liar and deceiver from the beginning, as Jesus said, and he causes all the confusion and division amongst the body of Christ and we shouldn’t do that. We understand that’s where you are according to the measure of faith that God has given you, that’s where you are right now.

[00:31:07] And I’m going to love you where you are. You love me where I am and pray for one another that God reveals truth to one another. So God is not the altar of confusion. He wants us to know His Word more than we want to know His Word. So with that said, as we carefully listen tonight to the Holy Spirit as he leads, that’s my prayer, that he would give us all truth and help us to gain understanding in these scriptures.

[00:31:36] So with that said, we’ll dive into chapter six again. It’s going on from about verse eleven or twelve of chapter five and he’s talking about your immature and dull of hearing and you need to grow up, stop drinking the bottle and start eating steak. He says therefore let us leave the elementary doctrines of Christ and go on to maturity again. Stop sucking a bottle and start eating steak, grow up you guys, we’re not going to lay again the foundation of repentance. He doesn’t say we’re not, but I added that in there.

[00:32:18] Let us leave the elementary doctrines of Christ and go on to maturity not laying again the foundation of repentance from dead works and of faith toward God and of instruction about washing and laying on of the hands of hands the resurrection of the dead and eternal judgment. So just in that verse there, there is a whole lot to unpack and we’ll hit on some of that but something where I’d like to show you is in what he’s saying is our basic doctrines, our basic understanding of salvation. There are six different things here that he addresses and you can put each six in a group of two. So the repentance from dead works and toward faith in God that the repentance from dead works. This is the law, the sacrificial system or our attempt today to be justified before God that’s religion, these dead works were all those things that they did in temple worship and sacrifice.

[00:33:27] We’ll see it later on in the study of Hebrews, you see it in Romans where the law could not make anyone justified, could not only brought death and that no one was ever saved through the blood of bulls and go that could not make anyone first, so they were dead works. Our faith is toward God. So in those two we see the first two points, we see our justification. We turn from our works to try to justify ourselves before God and we put our faith in God that is justified, you are justified through His Son and faith toward Him. So we have justification there.

[00:34:10] Then the next two is about the instructions about washings and the laying on of hands. So the washings are the baptisms, the different type of baptism there’s water baptism is simply a testimony of identifying with Christ in his death, burial and resurrection. It doesn’t save you, it just identifies you with Christ and is a public profession of your faith that you want to be identified with Christ in His. Death, burial and resurrection, the baptism of the Holy Spirit. There’s the baptism into the body of Christ.

[00:34:49] He’s saying, we’re not going to go through these watchings of these baptism elementary doctrines again. And the laying on of hands, the laying on of hands. We see where Paul lays hands on Timothy when he tells him to stir up that gift that’s in him to go and preach the Gospel. They laid hands on the ones in Acts and the ones that were appointed to deacons to go out to serve. It was just a setting apart.

[00:35:21] So in these two and the instructions of washing and laying on of hands, we see our sanctification. The first two are justification, the second two are sanctification. And then here the resurrection of the dead. Points five and six is our Glorification. You can read all about that in one Corinthians 15 of our Glorification and how it works in us, how Christ is.

[00:35:51] I’m sorry. Our Glorification is that we will be glorified in our heavenly bodies when we get to heaven. An eternal judgment is our eternal state or our reward. We see in two Corinthians 510. So the last part is our Glorification.

[00:36:09] So we see in this first verse the basic doctrines of justification, sanctification and glorification. Justification and glorification happen instantly. The moment that you believe that Jesus died on the cross for your sins, was buried and rose again and died for me, and you accept him as your personal Savior, you are instantly saved and sealed by the Holy Spirit. When we are taken up into heaven, we are instantly changed, as it says in one Corinthians 15 excuse me, we are changed in a moment, in a twinkling, out of an eye, we have a glorified body. But this sanctification in the middle is a process.

[00:36:58] That’s where we’re at today. We’re in the sanctification point of our Christian walk as God works with us to conform us into the image of his dear Son. Verse three. And this we will do if God permits. So he’s saying we’re going to leave these doctrines, these elementary doctrines, and Lord willing, we’re going to do this.

[00:37:26] Now, before we go much further, I would like to bring out the different theories of interpretation of the following verses. I’m not trying to lead you into any one of them. I just feel like it’s important that you see them, you know what they are, and we’ll talk about them and see do they fit within the context of Hebrews, first of all, and then in the context of what the writer is talking about. So the number one that all of you know is that they were never saved to start with. These were people who were never saved and that’s why they fell away.

[00:38:04] We’ll talk more about each one of these. Well, the next one is they’re saved, but they fell away and lost their salvation. We’ll talk some on that. There is a hypothetical situation. Some say that it’s just a hypothetical thing that the writer put out.

[00:38:21] We’ll talk about that. There is a view that Christians who wasted their walk with the Lord and not doing the things that they should have, not witnessing, not doing the things that God wanted to do, and then they wake up one day and realize that, you know what? I should have done more for the Lord. I should have given Him more. I should have witnessed more.

[00:38:46] I should have done this more. And he’s saying, it’s impossible to repent of those things. They’re gone. And for a time I had that view. I even preached a message on that and entitled it redeeming the time, these times that God gives us, we need to take full advantage of those because once those times are gone, you can’t rewind the clock, you can’t go back.

[00:39:11] So that’s one view. There is a view that it’s a Jewish issue that could only have been done back in that time. We’ll talk about that and then there’s another view where these Hebrews were trying to mix the law with grace. This is what the Judaizers were doing. So those are the views.

[00:39:31] We’ll discuss them as we go and try to see do those fit? Is this what he’s talking about? As we look through this. So, verse four, is there any questions right now? Everybody pretty clear where we’re at right now.

[00:39:47] I know I’m moving pretty quick. I’ve on a lot to cover and I’m trying to be sure we got I know we got an hour and 15 minutes, but I’m hoping we get it because there is so much to cover in these different viewpoints.

[00:40:04] So we’ll start in verse four. For it is impossible in the case of those who have once been enlightened and have tasted the heavenly gift and have shared in the Holy Spirit and have tasted the goodness of the word of God and the power of the age to come. So who are we talking about? What is he describing here? The different theories say they just sort of dabbled in it and they weren’t really saved.

[00:40:41] Some say, well, they were saved and they lost their salvation. Some say this is this and that. So what we’re talking about here very good, Diesel. Who are we talking about? They’ve once been enlightened.

[00:40:56] They’ve experienced the truth of the Word. Ephesians 118. The eyes of your understanding be enlightened. The same word there to enlighten that you may know what is the hope of his calling and what is the riches of the glory of his inheritance in the saints. One of my favorite verses, to think that we are Christ inheritance.

[00:41:22] But that’s another lesson, another day. In other words, this enlightened or this is their fully aware of the truth. You see, the word here, that they are enlightened, have been enlightened, I think is by the word of God. And you see in the parables by the seed. The seed in the parable is the word jesus says the ground is the Christians just keep that in mind.

[00:41:49] I know, we’re just bear with me. The point is in which the revelation of the truth takes place. So we all had the place where we understood that I’m a sinner and that I need a savior. And I have trusted Jesus as my personal savior. So that is the enlightenment.

[00:42:11] You have now come to the understanding that I am a sinner, for all have sinned and come short of the glory of God. But then they go on to taste the heavenly gift. They don’t just dabble in it as some say, I think, but they took it in and experienced it fully. Why do I think that? Well, if you refer back within the context of Hebrews in two nine, we see trying to pull up two nine here where Jesus tasted death.

[00:42:52] Well, where in the world did two nine go to? I had it here somewhere.

[00:42:59] Oh, there it is. But we see Jesus, whom was made a little lower than the angels for the suffering of death, crowned with glory and honor, that he by the grace of God would taste death for every man. Now if they just tasted it nowhere, they put it in their mouth and they spit it out. That doesn’t fit with Hebrews two nine. Do you think Jesus just sort of tasted death for the sins of the world and is man?

[00:43:25] I don’t want that, and threw it out? No, he fully experienced, he tasted it to the fullest, the death on the cross for the sins of the world.

[00:43:39] So once we’ve accepted Jesus as our Savior, then we taste and we take in what that heavenly gift is, the gift of God through His Son to us on the cross to save us, to be my personal Savior. I have fully took that in you. Experience the power of God’s work, experience the power of God’s work in the believer. Ephesians two, five and six. Even when we were dead in our sins hath he quickened us together.

[00:44:11] There’s the enlightenment with Christ, by grace you are saved, and hath raised us up together and made us to set in heavenly places. So your tasting of this heavenly gift, hebrews three one, wherefore holy brethren, partakers of the heavenly calling. Consider the apostle of our high priest, the apostle and high priest of our profession, Jesus Christ.

[00:44:42] Again, just bringing out the heavenly calling and the taste of it. You have experienced it, I believe, fully. Whoever he’s describing here has experienced fully. They were enlightened. They have experienced what the gift of God is, the heavenly gift of God is, and this heavenly calling that God has called us to be.

[00:45:05] And another just quick reference is one Corinthians 1544 through 49. If you want to write it down, it talks about a natural body and a spiritual body and that the natural body and there’s a natural body and a spiritual body. And the first man is of earth and earthy, the second man is of the Lord and from heaven. So when we are saved, our natural man dies. And now we become a spiritual creature where we can identify in heavenly things and we understand fully what God has for us in heaven.

[00:45:44] And in verse 49 of One Corinthians 15 and it says as we have bore the image of the earthly, our natural bodies, we shall also bear the image of the heavenly. So we didn’t just dabble or taste in the heavenly gift we are experiencing and becoming and being the image of that heavenly gift and that’s being conformed in the image of his dear Son. All right. Now the next one here is shared in the Holy Spirit. And again, a lot of people think that this is just.

[00:46:23] Well, the Holy Spirit spoke to and true enough, when you are being enlightened, it is the work of the Holy Spirit to reveal truth to them and to share the truth, enlighten them that they need a savior. But the Holy Spirit never indwells an unbeliever. The word here for shared is partners with 33 53 the King James says partakers and that means you partner with the Holy Spirit. You’re partners together. An unsaved and the Holy Spirit are not partners together.

[00:47:03] The Holy Spirit is trying to reveal truth and hoping you will come and accept the gift of salvation. But you only become a partner with the Holy Spirit and dwelt by the Holy Spirit as he works in and through you, once you have accepted Jesus as your personal Savior. I hope that is pretty clear. I hope I’ve made that clear. Ephesians 316 that the Gentiles should be fellow heirs of the same body and partakers of his promise in Christ by the Gospel.

[00:47:36] The moment we’re saved, we’re sealed by the Holy Spirit of promise. So again, going back to our justification, it is instant. And at that instant you are saved. The Holy Spirit comes and indwells you and seals you. Just a little side note and I won’t charge extra for this tonight, but there is a difference between being indwelt by the Holy Spirit and being filled with the Holy Spirit.

[00:48:01] indwelled by the Holy Spirit depends on God. Being filled with the Holy Spirit depends on me and my surrender to Him. So maybe we can do another study someday on the Holy Spirit about that. But there is a difference there. But being sealed by the Holy Spirit is that the instant of your salvation you are indwelled and sealed Jesus promises.

[00:48:24] And in John 1416 I will pray the Father and he shall give you another comforter, that he may abide with you forever in verse 17 and not only abide with you, but shall be in you forever. So that’s what the work of the holy Spirit, is it’s not? Until you fall away and then he leaves it’s forever. And I believe Jesus meant what he said forever. There’s nothing I can change that.

[00:49:00] So just the point there is that the Holy Spirit does not indwell an unbeliever. He does not partner with an unbeliever. So now the next one is to taste the goodness of the Word of God. The word tasted again 1089, is to fully experience the word of God. An unbeliever can look at it and we see the Ethiopian that Philip came to, he was reading the word of God, but he could not fully understand it or experience it without help from Philip.

[00:49:35] And when Philip explained it to him, he accepted, he believed and wanted to be baptized. And so they didn’t just dabble in it, they are taking in the Word of God. Oh, this makes sense. And the word of God just becomes real. It’s not just words on a page.

[00:49:54] It is something real that speaks to me. That’s a living word of God. As he speaks to me, so he tastes the goodness of the word of God. I’m trying to get too excited here tonight and get to preaching, but that’s just awesome stuff there through the work of the Holy Spirit that we just understand God’s word and it just flows. It’s not just as we read the Word of God, it’s just not words and something I have to do.

[00:50:24] It’s alive and living and living in me. So they fully experienced it. We tasted it again going back to Hebrews two nine, that Jesus should taste death for every believer. It’s not just a dabble in. It’s not just a wall around your mouth and spit it out.

[00:50:47] It’s a fully digestible, fully experienced this thing in John 851 and 52 very I say unto you, if a man keep my sayings, he shall never see death. Jesus was speaking to these Jews and boy, they just really got upset about that and then said the Jews unto him, now we know that thou hast the devil, abraham is dead in the prophets and thou sayest, if a man keep my sayings he shall never taste death. We all will fully experience death if the Lord doesn’t return first. We’re not just going to almost die and then say, no, I don’t want to, we are going to taste death. It is the same word as taste the goodness of the word of God here.

[00:51:36] So first Peter another references first Peter two one through three, wherefore laying aside all malice and guilt and hypocrisies and envies and all evil, speakings as newborn babes desire the sincere milk of the word. Well, that sounds familiar to what we’re reading tonight, doesn’t it? That you may grow thereby. If so, you have tasted that the Lord is good. You fully experience that the Lord is good.

[00:52:07] Grow in your walk with him. And then the next one is the power or the certainties of the age to come. Now, an unbeliever doesn’t understand the certainties of the age to come. That’s only for the believer. As the Holy Spirit reveals that God is in control of all things, that it’s all in his hands, he’s control even all that is to come.

[00:52:34] It is in his power, he is doing these things. So the certainty or the powers of the certainty of the ages to come, ephesians two seven, that in the ages to come, he might show the exceeding riches of his grace in his kindness toward us through Christ. So the Holy Spirit, through the working of the Holy Spirit and the Word, we understand all that we have and are in Christ from now on. We understand that.

[00:53:12] So if you haven’t figured it out yet, I am a pretty firm believer. I’ll say very firm believer. That who he is speaking to. Now the people in question are born again believers. I know some of you are sitting back on your heels and saying he’s going to tell us we can lose our salvation.

[00:53:33] No, I’m not. Just hold on. So if he’s talking to, which I sincerely believe he’s talking to believers not just professing to be Christians, but confessing the Lord Jesus, there are a lot of people out there that can profess to be Christians that are not. I understand that. Matthew 723, we see that.

[00:53:59] And then will I profess to them. I never knew from you depart from me. You work that work iniquity. The key there to me is that Jesus never knew them. It’s not a no like, yeah, that’s old Bob down there.

[00:54:14] Jesus knows every man, woman and child that ever walked the face of the earth. He knows who they are. That new there, I think, is an intimate relationship. I never had an intimate relationship with you. You were never my child from the very beginning.

[00:54:34] Why? Because you are a worker of iniquity. You were working dead works for your salvation, trying to gain your way or work your way to God or for personal gain, as we see in Acts, that the guy tried to cast out the demons for money and in Jesus name the demon came out and says, paul, we know Jesus, we know, but who are know. And that didn’t turn out well for that guy. That guy didn’t have an intimate relationship with Jesus Christ.

[00:55:05] He was only professing, he was only acting like so I understand there are some out there, that many out there that say they’re Christian and are not. But what we see here, I think, are the believers who have actually confessed Jesus as Lord with their mouth, believe in their heart that God has raised Him from, that they’ve experienced, they’ve tasted, they are partnering with the Holy Spirit. So as far as the theory of saved but fell away and lost their salvation, I’ll just say this. I see that absolutely nowhere in Scripture. I’ve had people arguing, oh, it happened all the time in the Old Testament.

[00:55:48] No, it had never happened in the New Testament. I can’t find a place, unless you take Scripture out of context, that anyone ever lost their salvation once they were saved, that they lost their salvation. If that were so, then Moses is going to have a problem. David’s got a big problem. Peter’s got a big problem.

[00:56:09] Who denied Jesus. And Jesus said, clearly, you confess me, four men, I’ll confess you for the Father. You deny me, I’ll deny you. Peter denied three times. Did he lose his salvation?

[00:56:21] Absolutely not. Did David, when he committed adultery and murder, did he lose his salvation? Absolutely not. He lost the joy of his salvation. When Moses killed the Egyptians, did he lose his salvation?

[00:56:40] Absolutely not. He lost that joy of salvation. He lost the joy that he had thinking that he was going to help God out with his things. How about the man that was living in adultery? In one Corinthians 15, he fell.

[00:56:56] Did he lose his salvation? No. Paul tells him in one corinthians to set him out from the congregation or from the fellowship that he’d be spared. And then we see in two corinthians where he says, Go and he has suffered or not, he’s repented of his sin. Go and bring him back into the fold and love him.

[00:57:16] He didn’t lose his salvation. He was just not where he should be with the Lord. And Paul, you say, well, okay, they dabbled in it and all that. How about Paul? He dabbled in it before the road to Damascus.

[00:57:33] He heard all about he was a pharisee of Pharisees. He knew the Old Testament scriptures backwards and forwards. The Holy Spirit was definitely remember Jesus said, isn’t it hard for you to kick against the pricks? I believe that’s the prodding of the Holy Spirit within him saying, what you’re doing is not right.

[00:57:55] You’re not even saved. He was being prodded by the Holy Spirit, wasn’t partnered with yet because he was very much acting against the will of God. So even Paul would have had some major problems with this. And let’s don’t forget, all of us who fall every day and fall short, we all fall short of the glory of God. Can we lose our salvation?

[00:58:20] No. Those who teach you can lose your salvation will also tell you that they turned from the Lord and later on Lord talked to them and then they came back to him and they returned to God. At some point in their life, they came back. Well, not according to your interpretation of the Scripture, you didn’t, because it says that if you were to fall away according to your interpretation, it’s impossible for you to ever even come back. So I’m just sort of throwing some stuff out there to be chewing on about this text.

[00:58:57] If these things were so if you could lose your salvation, you’ve lost it and there is no coming back. It’s impossible if you interpret it that way. The theory of a hypothetical situation if they shall fall away. Most translations don’t say if. They says and then have fallen away.

[00:59:18] Like in the King James is the only one that refers to if that I’m aware of. I haven’t looked at all of them, but because I am the King James guy kind of thing, it says if, but other translations says and then fallen away. Either way, this would be one of the greatest hypothetical situations in scripture, which I know. I don’t really know of any scripture right off top of my head, or not many that use hypothetical situations for such an important topic. There are some hypothetical things in scripture, but I don’t believe not many of them refer to deep understanding of God kind of things.

[01:00:09] The only one that comes to mind to me maybe Matthew 23 through 33 where these sadducees were coming up with a hypothetical situation to prove their incorrect theory about the resurrection. So generally hypothetical theories are man made, come up with to help us to understand or explain something we don’t understand. And I’m afraid that often that’s the case here in Hebrews six. If we say this is a hypothetical situation, we just can’t understand it. It’s just hypothetical.

[01:00:45] That’s a big hypothetical to me. Is everybody with me now? I’m not at church so I can’t hear Amens or anything, but I think everybody followed me to this point. Absolutely.

[01:01:02] I just want to agree with what you’ve said there. Hebrews one through six is 100%. And if we go to the Greek and we see the phrases, because there’s many things that are said, like two or three words, which is a single Greek phrase, where if we look at all the interpretations of this chapter, the majority of scholars, and I’m talking about renowned biblical scholars, would agree that the author here is speaking in a hypothetical sense. And he is not saying that believers can lose their salvation or fall away. It actually does the opposite.

[01:01:47] He’s insinuating that if it was possible for these things to take place, then you would have to be born again. And this is basically a question I asked the other night to that lady on the live is do you have to be born again, again and again and again and again, or are you once off born again? So absolutely agree with you when it says that this is a hypothetical if this was the case, and this is ultimately why those who believe in eternal security and salvation being a gift from God that we respond to, ultimately the author here is placing that in the hand of the believer. So as Kenny said, he’s writing to believers that if this were the case, then you’d have to do this again and again and again and Christ would have to die again and again. And.

[01:02:46] I’ll be honest with you, I sort of feel that way. And I know, and I feel almost humbled here, that there are a lot of renowned theologians that look at this. There are a lot of renowned theologians that look at it in other ways. And that’s why I say it’s so controversial. And I’ll be honest with you.

[01:03:09] This whole week I have been praying and studying and looking at this. And I probably put more hours in it this week than a long time over something that I feel pretty comfortable in what I believe on just because I know how controversial this can be. So what I want to do now that we’ve established that he is talking to believers here and I know don’t think I’m taking something out of scripture, I’m not taking away from scripture. When I come across and this is just the way I study God’s word, especially difficult passages, the passage that is most difficult a lot of times I just leave it alone and I read all the context before it and all the context after it. And then I go back to that difficult one and say, okay, how does that fit within the context of what we’re reading?

[01:04:06] Context is everything. It is especially everything here. So now what I’d like to do is go to verse seven through twelve. So if we’re talking we are talking to believers. What are they doing?

[01:04:22] What is this fall here? What is this thing that they can’t be renewed to repentance about what is going on? So we’ll go to verse seven and then we’ll come back to verse six to see how it fits within the context of what the writer is telling us. We see in four and five that he’s speaking to Christians. What kind of Christians?

[01:04:47] Ones that are babes. Ones that are immature, sucking on a bottle and need to be eaten. Steak maybe. I hope that’s all right. To keep saying to you all, I’m country, I know, but these are babes that have not matured.

[01:05:01] He says, let’s go on to perfection or to maturity. They’re dull of hearing we see in 511 through 14. So this is what kind of Christians he’s talking about. And what is the warning of what they’re doing because of their dull of hearing or because they’re unlearned? The writer starts off by giving an example of what they’re doing, of what’s going on.

[01:05:26] For the land that has drunk in the rain that often falls on it and produces crop useful to those for whose sake it is cultivated, receives a blessing from God. So the land here, I believe, is, as you see maybe in the parable, is the good soil. Is the soil or the individual who takes in the rain. The soil takes in the rain and produces a good crop. So it’s an individual who absorbs rain.

[01:06:07] What is water always referred to in scripture. It refers to the word of God. So the individual who takes in the Word of God through the work of the Holy Spirit does what? Produces good fruit, produces something that is useful for and is a blessing from God and is a blessing to others. If we take in that and understand that through the work of the Holy Spirit we too can produce good works, good fruits of the Spirit, and is cultivated.

[01:06:46] I’ll get that in just a minute. But I want to talk about right now that the land, the rain and the producing crops, the individual who takes in the Word of God and produces good works or good fruit, as mentioned in Galatians 522. But the fruit of the Spirit is love, joy, peace, long suffering, gentleness, goodness, faith, meekness, tenderness against sets. There is no law for whose sake it is cultivated. There you go, Brian.

[01:07:18] The land or the individual has been worked with to produce useful crop. When you cultivate it, you plow it. And as you’re plowing I don’t know if many of you ever done a garden. I plow my garden and I used to do it, but with a little hand tiller. And every time my hand tillers start bouncing all over the place, I’ve hit a rock and I dig down and throw that rock out to have good soil.

[01:07:43] I’m cultivating the soil, getting rid of those things. That would hinder again a comparison to the parable of the sower of those who fell on stony ground. Didn’t get good root within them. But here we see a land that is rained upon, produces good crop, it is cultivated. They’re cultivated by God to produce these good works.

[01:08:12] The one who surrenders to the work of the Holy Spirit to break up and to get those things out of their life that hinder them from being fruitful, those are cultivated ones. And when they do that, they receive a blessing from God and are, as I said, a blessing to others. So the land or individual that has been cultivated matures in its faith. It can’t do anything but mature. As the Holy Spirit works in us and leads us to His Word and reveals truth, we grow in our Christian walk and then is considered a blessing from God.

[01:08:53] Then he goes on the example. But on the contrary to that land or an individual that has not been cultivated or is immature in his faith does what? But if it bears thorns and thistles, it is worthless and near to being cursed and is in to be burned. Wow, I’ve got a lot to cover. So this land that is not being say is not being cultivated, the word is not being soaked up and it’s not a blessing.

[01:09:32] They’re immature. It’s different from the parable that the seed is thrown among thorns and thistles. Here it says it’s bearing thorns and thistles. It’s bringing up thorns and thistles. Not sown among.

[01:09:48] But bears those things. So by the way, I just want to point out in the parable, since I’m referring to it so much, there was only one set of the different scenarios that Christ gave that actually produced fruit. And it was the seed that fell on the good cultivated ground that was prepared to receive the seed and it roots dug deep and produces fruit. None of the other scenarios actually even produce fruit. So here again, the other three I don’t believe, were ever even really saved because they didn’t produce anything.

[01:10:29] And as a believer, we should be producing fruit if it’s nothing more than just love, joy, peace, long suffering, gentleness goodness. Those are the fruits of the Spirit, because he indwells us. So this what he’s saying here, that bears thorns and thistles is a product of uncultivated land, or immature. Immature Christian, and the end result of their work is useless. He said it is near being cursed, and whose end is to be burned?

[01:11:11] Thank you, JD, you make me laugh. Whose end is to be burned? We’re not talking about eternal damnation. Burned in hell. This is referring to one Corinthians 315 through 13, that every man work will be manifest, for the day will declare it, because it shall be revealed by fire, and that fire shall try every man’s work, of what sort it is.

[01:11:36] If any man’s work abide that good fruit, he that builds thereupon shall receive award a good fruit, a good crop that is useful. But if any man’s work be burned, he shall suffer loss. If he’s producing thorns and thistles, it’s not useful for anything, and he suffers loss. There is no fruit there. Wow, I’m almost wanting to get fired up.

[01:12:01] But he himself shall be saved yet so as by fire. This is what he’s talking about here. These immature Christians need to be bringing in the word of God and letting God work in their lives, that they can become fruitful. But these works that they’re doing, they’re bearing thorns and thistles, they’re useless. These works that they’re doing are useless.

[01:12:27] Now, he says in verse nine, though we speak in this way, or I like the King James version of it better but beloved, we are persuaded, better things of you and things that accompany salvation. Though we thus speak the whole context of what he’s talking about, there is better things, better fruits, better things than thorns and thistles. This is what I’m trying to talk to you about. He says, I’m trying to explain that you’re immature, your babes in Christ, you’re not producing good fruits. Your works that you’re doing are of no use at all.

[01:13:08] They’re worthless and they’re near to be cursing and burned that God will try these works. Okay. Calm down, guinea. We are talking about things that are produced because of salvation, not to obtain salvation. And he’s saying beloved.

[01:13:31] Who is the beloved? Fellow believers in Christ we see in verses four through five. He’s talking to Christians. We’re persuaded better things. We’re convinced you are capable of doing better than thorns and thistles if you’ll go on to maturity.

[01:13:52] Things that accompany salvation, the good fruit of the Spirit. Oftentimes we love to quote Ephesians two, eight and nine, for by grace are you saved through faith, not of yourselves. It is a gift of God, not of works, lest any man should boast. Amen. That is how we are saved, by grace through faith in Christ alone.

[01:14:13] There’s no other way. But then, verse ten, we just sort of skip over that, because now this requires our land to be us, to be cultivated and worked on and led by the Holy Spirit. For we are his workmanship, we are his cultivated soil. We are created, made useful in Christ unto good works that produce good fruit, which God hath before ordained that we should walk in them. We are saved to I’m not a works based salvation person by any means, but if you think for a minute that you get saved and that’s it, that’s all there is to you.

[01:15:01] As Paul says, you’re falling from the grave. You’ve fallen from the truth of what God wants for us. We are his workmanship created to good works. So he’s saying, Guys, move on to maturity, knowing who we are in Christ and what he’s done for us in his finished work on the cross. It is finished.

[01:15:28] It’s done. There’s nothing else for salvation. Now go serve him. Produce those things that the Holy Spirit within you wants you to produce. Let Him work in you to weed out those old stones and then weeds where you can produce a good crop that’s helpful for you.

[01:15:47] That’s a blessing from God and a blessing to others. And then he goes on to say in verse ten, as I try to digress a little bit, but not the Sabbath. We don’t work on the Sabbath. Exactly. I said last week, you missed it, Dady.

[01:16:02] Today we don’t observe a Sabbath day. We observe a Sabbath life every day, seven days a week, 24 hours a day, I rest in Christ. He is our Sabbath rest. So, verse ten for God is not unjust to overlook your work and the love that you have shown in his name and serving the saints and still do. What’s he talking about?

[01:16:29] Uhoh, he’s making a point there that some reason these Hebrews think God would overlook their work. He said, no, he won’t overlook your work, the love you’ve shown in his name, and you show to the saints. What was the labor of love the Jews showed to God in the Old Testament? To keep his law and to do his sacrifices. Remember, Moses read it and they said all that the Lord has said, we will do.

[01:16:56] That’s how they thought that they loved God and that they worked for God and showed that they wanted to be obedient. That’s all they knew. They thought the only way to please God was through their work, through that religious system. It’s interesting to me. I can sort of look at Mary and Martha this way.

[01:17:18] Remember Martha was so busy working, getting the house already and cleaning up and Jesus was coming and all them and she had to get everything together and she was working her tail off in a frenzy trying to get everything ready. And here’s Mary just over there at the feet of Jesus, just worshiping Him.

[01:17:37] And Martha’s basically just saying, jesus, tell Mary to get up and stop just sitting around. There’s stuff to do. We’ve got to work here. And Jesus says, martha. Martha, calm down.

[01:17:52] Martha. Mary has chosen the best things to just sit at the feet of Jesus and worship Him.

[01:18:02] We got to understand what we have in Christ and who he is and just sit at his feet and worship Him. Stop trying to work your way to please Him. Let Him work in and through you. That’s what pleases him. I tell my people all the time, the only thing you’ll ever do to please God is to believe on His Son.

[01:18:24] Accept him as your personal savior. After that, he does in and everything through you as you surrender to Him in your daily walk. Oh, that’s good stuff. Now we labor today. Our labor today is that we serve one another.

[01:18:43] Serve one another was not an emphasis in the Old Testament. Only after work of cross on the Christ and the dwelling of the Holy Spirit did we see this come and be a matter of importance. The one thing, the last thing that Jesus taught his disciples as he got down and washed their feet to serve one another, to love one another. By this you’ll know they are my disciples if you love one another. This was a whole new concept to the Jews because up to this point all they knew is the temple worship and sacrificial system and I better keep God’s law.

[01:19:25] And now all of a sudden because the Holy Spirit indwells me and because the work on the cross of Jesus now all he wants me to do is just serve one another, love Him and love one another. That is our good works. That is the fruit that is useful for all of us. I’m really trying not to get too excited here but I’m sorry y’all, this is just good stuff. But today we obey God by loving and serving one another.

[01:19:54] Not by your work, not by your work, but according it is God who worketh in you to will and to do his good pleasure. Philippians 213. I love that verse. I didn’t have at my notes, but thank you Lord. And we desire each of you to show the same earnest to the full assurance of hope until the end so that you may not be sluggish.

[01:20:23] There, you see it again, lazy, immature in the faith, but imitators of those who through faith and patience inherited the promise. Guys, the work is done in Jesus Christ. He’s promised to come and to return and to get us and to take us home with Him forever. Because of the blood of Jesus and through faith we believe that we’ll read in Hebrews eleven. By faith Abraham did, by faith Noah did.

[01:20:54] Not for salvation, but because of their faith, because they believed they did. So we’ll read that in Hebrews, we’ll get more into that later on. So now let’s go back to verse six. Now that we understand he’s talking to believers, he’s talking about them being immature and their works are useless. And God wants them to produce good works that are useful, that is a blessing.

[01:21:23] And we do rest in Him, we rest in his grace. Now looks at verse six in context. Christians that are immature, that aren’t producing anything worth a flip. Can I say it that way? I know that’s I’m a good old southern boy, but that’s just the way it is.

[01:21:44] Keep in mind he’s talking to immature Christians that aren’t producing good crops, but we’re producing thorns and thistles works that were useless and almost rejected. So now let’s carefully read verse six in its context. And then having fallen away to restore them talking to these Christians, and then having fallen away to restore them again to repentance, since they crucify once again the Son of God and put him to their own harm and holding him to contempt. That’s the ESV. It’s a little different than some of you understand, I got it.

[01:22:27] But let’s go back and let’s break this down.

[01:22:33] If then they fallen away. Here is the thing that changed my mind years ago about all of this. We automatically go when we see fallen away. We automatically think apostasy, it’s just done, you fell away. You fell away from the faith, you’ve forsaken the faith, you’ve revolted and all the rest.

[01:23:05] But it’s a falling away. It’s not the falling away you think, or a lot of people think. The key to understanding this verse is to understand falling away. I don’t know, JD or somebody, you can look it up for yourself. But the word here is parapto.

[01:23:28] And the only time it’s ever used in scripture is right here. It’s only used one time, there is no cross reference to it anywhere else in Scripture. It says that the writer I heard one guy say all the time, it’s almost like the writer just made up his own word.

[01:23:47] So he says parapto. If I’m saying that right, JD. Is more eloquent. Remember, he’s the chauffeur. I’m just the professor here, but some of you didn’t hear that joke.

[01:24:02] But to understanding it is this, and it appears only once. And it means to fall in one’s way or to fall alongside. Not a falling away, but to fall as you are going down this path you fall down or you fall alongside the path. You all look that up if you don’t believe me. But I got it straight from the I believe is the blue letter.

[01:24:33] I even went back to my old fashioned strongs in a big fat book and looked it up. And then when I realized that, hey, this isn’t a falling away. Well, what is he talking about? Again, I say if Paul didn’t write this, he had a lot to do with it, because Galatians and Hebrews go hand in hand here. So the theory of this passage is referring to something that only Jews could do at that time.

[01:25:00] Doesn’t apply. That doesn’t really make sense, because Paul wrote it to the Gentiles in Galatians, and it sounds a lot like it in Galatians. Five one through four. For freedom, Christ has set us free, free from works, free from all that law and sacrificial sin. Stand firm therefore, and do not submit again to the yoke of slavery.

[01:25:24] That yoke of slavery is the law and the sacrificial system. That’s what he’s talking about, this bondage of religion. He’s freed us from that. Stand firm in that. Look, I Paul, saying to you, if you accept circumcision, christ will be no advantage to you.

[01:25:42] Notice you’re doing this. You’ve lost the importance of Christ. I testify again that every man who accepts circumcision that he is obligated to the whole law. So if you think you can be saved through and you’ve got to be circumcised and you’re trying to work your way to heaven, remember you can get circumcised, but you’re still obligated to the entire law.

[01:26:11] Christ has become no effect unto you whomsoever you are justified by the law. I don’t know how anybody can say we keep the law and that’s how we’re saved today. There is so clear Romans, Hebrews, Galatians, throughout the Old Testament, Paul’s writings, we are not saved by the law. We are not justified by the law. And he says, you are fallen from grace.

[01:26:38] In other words, grace is coming to effect to you. That word fallen there is 16 one I can’t even I don’t know, I can’t pronounce it right. You all can look it up, but it’s to be cast aside or cast ashore. Grace is no effect if you think you can be justified by the law. You’ve missed out on grace.

[01:27:07] If this is what you’re trying to gain righteousness through the law, grace is not then you’ve missed out on what grace is about. You don’t understand all that you are in Christ. You don’t understand his finished work on the cross. There’s nothing else to be done. Added to no way, shape or form.

[01:27:28] So the falling away is to fall in one’s way, not an apostasy. The falling away here or falling away here is 38 95. The falling way of an apostasy, just so you know, is 646 and is pronounced apostasa. Apostasy. That’s where we get our word apostasy.

[01:27:52] That’s a revolt or a deflection to forsake. We see that in Acts 21 21, and they are informed of thee there’s talking about this council here that they brought up that thou teachest all Jews which are among the Gentiles, to forsake or Apostasize against Moses, saying that they ought not be circumcised, their children neither to walk after them. So there’s the apostasy. They were accusing these teachers that trust in Jesus that you don’t have to be circumcised. And they’re saying, Wait a minute, you’re going against Moses?

[01:28:32] And what he said, you’re apostasizing against Moses teaching and the law. That’s the word apostasia there 646. But the word here in chapter six is 38 95, which is to fall alongside. So as you’re going down the path, there’s a vision in my mind and you fall down in the path, you fall alongside the path. Now, it is impossible we get that from verse four.

[01:29:04] It’s like verse four starts out it is impossible. And then he says all of who he’s talking to, these Christians, it is impossible to restore them again. To repentance? To restore them again to repentance. They’re Christians producing unfruit that is not profitable, that is not helpful, is not a blessing from God.

[01:29:31] What does this mean? This is where I had to look deeper into the verse. Okay, let’s leave that part. To restore them repentance. So what is he talking about?

[01:29:41] Since they are crucifying once again the Son of God to their own harm and holding Him up to contempt by falling alongside, they are crucifying Christ all over again every time they make a sin offering.

[01:30:07] This is what I think he’s talking about. These people, these Hebrews, these Judaizers mixing law and grace. And they were going back and forth because remember, it’s been years they’ve done it this way. And just like this good old Baptist, you can’t change anything overnight. They were back and forth between law and grace and they felt like to please God, we had to go back and do our sacrifices.

[01:30:33] That’s what he was pleased with in the past. So I sinned this week, so I better go back and make another sacrifice. No, that work is finished. In Jesus Christ.

[01:30:46] You’re crucifying him again. This is different than we see in Hebrews Ten where it says that Christ would be often be crucified. It’s not that Christ would have to do it over and over and over again. It’s different than Hebrews ten. They are when they’re doing whatever they’re doing, when they’re falling by the wayside, they’re crucifying Christ again.

[01:31:10] How are we crucifying Christ again? Hebrews ten one through four. For the law having shadow of a good things to come and not the very image of those things can never with those sacrifices which they offer year by year continually make the comers there unto perfect. For then they not have ceased to be offered, because that the worshippers once purged, should have no more conscience of sin. Remember that.

[01:31:45] But in those sacrifices, there is an remembrance again made of sin every year, for it is not possible. Does that sound familiar, what we’re talking about now, that the blood of bulls and goats should take away sin. We know at salvation that the blood of bulls and goats couldn’t do that. But I always say, if you’re saved by grace, live by grace. Once you’re saved and you fall by the wayside, don’t go back to trying to make it right and doing all these little churchy things and working your tail off to make yourself right with God.

[01:32:24] It’s impossible, people, your works are not going to restore you to a full place of repentance. Only the work of Jesus Christ in us and by his blood can we come to a place of true repentance about our sinful situation, not our salvation situation, but as Christians that walk a daily life. These guys, I can just picture that, yeah, we got Jesus, but uh oh, I blew it. I need to go back to the temple and make a sacrifice. No, these sacrifices are not going to bring you to a place of repentance.

[01:33:02] It’s impossible, because everything about the sacrifices and the law, every jot and tittle pointed to our Lord Jesus Christ and he said, it is finished. You can’t add anything to it or take away from it. Stop being Hebrews. You Hebrews. Stop acting like Hebrews and stop doing temple worship.

[01:33:24] Stop going back to the old law. It’s impossible for you to come to full repentance of that. Now, I’ve got a few things to calm down a little bit to add to that. Where was I at? So how were they falling from the elementary principles of the doctrines of Christ in verse one?

[01:33:47] By trying to achieve repentance through dead works that produce only thorns and thistles. The law and the sacrificial system is what he’s referring to. This is the dead works. This only produces thorns and thistles. This only produces death.

[01:34:04] Yeah, we can eat bacon, too. With the law and the sacrifices impossible to come to true repentance, to restore them again, to change their mind about their sin. And if we confess our sins, he’s faithful and just forgive us our sin and cleanse us from all righteousness. Yes, we’re completely forgiven at the cross, but that what John says in one John one nine, it’s important that we confess. That only means to agree with God that I was wrong and that I need to agree with you about my sin.

[01:34:42] And only through the work of the Holy Spirit can I see that. Not through a sacrificial system, not by going to church, not by helping little old ladies across the street. It’s the blood of Jesus that brings me to that true repentance by the work of the Holy Spirit as he reveals what his finished work is on the cross. Okay, now that Hebrews 914. These sacrifices that they were doing, he’s going to bring this out even more and more through the next few verses.

[01:35:16] That. Christ, I’m sorry. The law and the sacrificial system, which was a figure for the time then present, in which were offered both gifts and sacrifices that could not make him that did the service perfect, it couldn’t bring you to repentance, couldn’t make you mature in Christ as pertaining to conscience. It couldn’t really change your mind about sin. How much more shall the blood of Christ in verse 914, who through the eternal Spirit offered himself without spot or to God purge your conscience from what dead works to serve a living God, not a dead lamb.

[01:36:04] We serve a living God through Jesus Christ our Lord. And if you want to write it down for two Corinthians seven, nine through ten that it talks about a Godly repentance versus an earthly repentance man repentance that says, I’m sorry I got caught. A Godly repentance understands that I have fallen short of the glory of God, that I’ve fallen short of what he wants me to be. And he’s talking about true repentance that when he wrote the letter to them, he says, I was sorry, but I’m not sorry. I’m sorry it grieved you, but I’m not sorry that it grieved you to the point to change your mind about the sin you were living in the Holy Spirit dings that brings Godly sorrow, brings forth fruits.

[01:36:56] Amen is what I’m trying to say. I need some help every now and then. So we see it there. I think I missed maybe possible restore. Let me back up again to that, to restore them again.

[01:37:15] David said that in Psalm 51 after he disobeyed God and having an affair with Bathsheba and having her husband put to death. And in his confession in Psalms 51, he says to restore unto me the joy of your salvation.

[01:37:36] He says, O Lord, open my lips and my mouth, that I show forth thy praise, for thou desirest not a sacrifice. Even David back then understood that the sacrifice wasn’t what God was really after, else I would give it. Thou delightest not in burn offerings. The sacrifices of God are a broken spirit and a broken and contrite heart. Oh God, thou will not despise.

[01:38:01] There is true repentance, there is able to restore to repentance not your works. It’s impossible for your works to restore you to that kind of repentance. And we see that and I picked up on that through the they are crucifying Christ. Every time you make a sacrifice, it points to Christ. It is all about him.

[01:38:26] Samuel even acknowledged that God wanted repentance over sacrifice in Samuel 1522. So true repentance only comes by the work of the Holy Spirit as it reveals what is finished work of Christ. Okay, I think I’ve caught myself back up and this is what Ezekiel is talking about. It’s not an outward we’ll see later on in our study that all this temple worship and sacrificial system was an outward expression. God says, I want an inward change.

[01:39:02] I want an inward, true repentance, godly sorrow that produces good fruit. And he promised that as Ezekiel 36, I will give you a new heart, a new spirit will I put within you that was new to them, and I will remove the heart of stone. I’ll cultivate you and prepare you to receive my word from your flesh and give you a heart of flesh. And I will put my spirit within you and cause you to walk in my statues to have true repentance about sin and be careful to obey my rules. The Holy Spirit causes us to have true change of mind towards sin when we walk in his ways.

[01:39:50] So oh, my goodness. I’m about out of time, and I really wanted to have some the rest of this we’ll read maybe next week. But I want you to understand well, I’ll go through it real briefly here. We don’t rest in our works of righteousness, but on the promise of God.

[01:40:09] What I want to sum up with that verse is and having fallen by the wayside, it’s impossible for your sacrifices and temple worship to restore you to repentance can’t happen because all you’re doing with that sacrificial system is crucifying again, the Son of God. And those are dead works. Those are dead works. You can’t do that. And it’s not fruitful for anyone, you or anyone else.

[01:40:47] And that’s definitely not a blessing from God. So I’ll keep going here a few more minutes to try to finish up this chapter, and I wanted to leave enough room for you to have discussion if you want it, because I know I’ve fed you a lot of stuff. Let me hush and get going. The certainty of God’s promise in all this, this is what they were saved, and they were immature, and they were going back and forth between temple worship and sacrifices and, oh, I hope God’s okay. This is what he’s saying here.

[01:41:20] Now. This is the promise of God as Abraham waited for the promise. He says, for when God made a promise to Abraham, since he had no greater by whom to swear, he swore by himself. God cannot lie. God cannot lie.

[01:41:39] He does not go back on his promises. Surely I will bless you and multiply you. Thus Abraham have patiently waited, obtained the promise, for the people swear by greater than themselves and in all their duties of an oath and final confirmation. So when God desired to show more convincingly to his heirs of the promise, the unchangeable character of his purpose, he guaranteed it with an oath. With his promise, he will send a savior.

[01:42:13] He will provide a sacrifice, and in that sacrifice, he will accomplish all that is required for salvation. His work will be finished. He’s going to sit down at the right hand of Father and you can rest in Him. Rest on that promise. Stop going back and forth to your sacrificial system.

[01:42:34] It’s done. It’s gone, it’s over. It’s completed. In Jesus Christ. This is a promise from God all the way back to the beginning to Abraham that he would provide a sacrifice so that by two unchangeable things in which it was impossible for God to lie, we who have fled for refuge might have strong encouragement to hold fast to the hope set before us.

[01:43:02] Don’t hope in your sacrificial system. Hope in Jesus Christ. That’s who’s set before his. We have this promise as a sure steadfast anchor of the soul. Jesus is the anchor of my soul.

[01:43:22] My hope is built on nothing less but Jesus blood and his righteousness. That’s where I rest. That’s where my hope is. That’s where I find inner peace, the hope that enters in a hope that enters into the inner place behind the curtain. Jesus went into the very holy of holies before the mercy seat and applied his blood once and for all.

[01:43:47] It isn’t needed anymore. Stop Hebrews. Stop being Hebrews. You Christians today. Stop trying to live and work your way to please God.

[01:43:58] Jesus did it all on the cross. Rest in him. Let him work in you. Let Him cultivate you and understand any who believe you can’t be saved. And he says in John 1028 and I give Jesus speaking unto them eternal life, and they shall never perish, neither shall any man pluck them out of My hand.

[01:44:22] Not a law, not your works. It’s Me who did it on the cross, who completed everything. I give him eternal life. He has the power to give eternal life. And he says that we will never perish where Jesus has gone as the forerunner of our behalf, having become a high priest forever after the order of Melchizedek.

[01:44:48] So now he ties 510 to 620. Now that you understand that, hopefully you’re not mature, immature and understand you can’t go back to your sacrificial system anymore. It’s not going to bring you repentance. It’s impossible. And all you’re doing is crucifying again the Son of God afresh.

[01:45:09] Come on, guys, let me tell you some deep stuff about Melchizedek. And he goes on chapter seven and eight and explains who Melchizedek is, how Jesus is melchizedek, or a type of priest of ever after Melchizedek, and how he could become a high priest. And we’ll talk about all that. So the work is finished. Stop going back to the temple and his sacrifices.

[01:45:35] It’s impossible for them works to ever bring true repentance of sin. All you’re doing is crucifying. The Son of God afresh only by God’s promise, only by the promise of God to give His Son for the sins of the world and for the work of the Holy Spirit within us. He sanctifies us, cultivates us into the image of his dear Son. So rest in Christ alone.

[01:46:01] Amen. With that, I am finished. We did it. Now I’m going to open it up for some conversation. Anybody got any comments or something that wasn’t clear?

[01:46:14] That was so good. That was so good. I just want to add again, I know you’ve covered it so well and I just want to give a little bit of insight on the Greek. And again, for anybody, I’m not saying you’ve got to go study the Greek, I maintain that. But again, when we do go into the Greek and we start understanding these phrases, especially now that you’ve seen Hebrews five and six.

[01:46:44] So we’ve got strongs 50 46, strongs 50 47 and strongs 50, strongs 50 48, which are all different explanations in the Greek for what it means to be complete. So just to cover again, because Kenny did a fantastic job and I appreciate you, brother, you’re such a blessing, praise the Lord for you. But just a quick overview again from Hebrews six, verses one to six, okay? Because that’s ultimately where most of the controversy comes in, as Kenny mentioned from the offset, but what we see from here. So the goal of the Christian is expressed fully by the Greek word as we see in the strongs 50 47 telota telota, which is translated perfection.

[01:47:38] So the idea being explained is that the believer is to pursue a state of maturity. So we are forever trying to pursue that state of maturity instead of going back to the initial rudiments of Christianity and basic faith. The phrase where he says laying again a foundation refers to the idea that if a Christian could lose his salvation, he would need to be regenerated again and again, as we’ve mentioned earlier on. So in laying the groundwork for this passage, there needs to be a proper understanding of the controversial section, which is in verses four through six. So the key idea is that the whole passage is hypothetical, as I’ve already mentioned.

[01:48:25] Now, for the sake of an argument, for those who have seen these arguments on TikTok saying that your salvation can be lost. Now for the sake of the argument, we must accept the supposition that one can undergo the process of salvation and then fall away from or lose that salvation. So the explanation in the following verses is designed to show the oddity of this idea. As we see in verse four, the nature of the impossibility is tied directly to the infinitive which we find in verse six, which is the Greek phrase anakinizin, which is to renew. So in the Greek text, there are five participles that must be explained thoroughly in order for us to properly understand this passage.

[01:49:15] Now, this is where the controversy comes in because a lot of people again, from translation to translation, and this is why I always say to people, if I could advise you what not to read, then it would be a thoughtful thought translation like the NLT or the NIV. And the reason is, as Kenny’s already mentioned, it says they have fallen away where the kjvs nasbs they are more look if it was a possibility placing it in that way. So if we look at it from to renew anakinazin in the Greek text. So these five participles which we go through, the first of these one is which appears in verse four, is the Greek word photos, photostentus which is strongs 5461. So this term is translated in this term photosentus is translated those who were once enlightened.

[01:50:14] However, it should be rendered that having being enlightened nothing using the passive voice. The latter meaning reveals that the salvation process is initiated by God giving the light to every man as we see in John one nine. Now the next phrase that we need to consider in this salvation process or sanctification process is found in verse four as well and have tasted of the heavenly gift. This too could be better expressed having tasted the Greek word for having tasted isameos, which is strongs 189. So in this case, the middle voice is used to reveal that a person is responding to the light that God has given.

[01:51:07] The focus then changes to man’s responsibility in initiating a reaction to this enlightened state. So the fact is always clear in the salvation process God offers the gift, but man must take the initiative to receive that gift as we see in John 112 and ultimately the world famous verse John 316. Now the third participle is gay nay thentas, which is a compound of guinomai, which is strong’s 196. Now this is translated to were made. This also should be rendered in the passive voice as having been made indicating a result of man’s receiving of the gift of God connected with the phrase partakers of the Holy Ghost.

[01:52:03] This participle expresses that by virtue of receiving one is made a partaker. So therefore the Holy Spirit is involved in the process by coming to indwell the believer. However, the Holy Spirit not only works in the indwelling, but it is also indicated that the divine revelation and conviction processes previous to salvation are a result of the activity of the Holy Spirit. So when we examine the fourth Greek participle found in verse five, Gay Semenos, one should consider that the same interpretation is intended by the middle voice in the phrase having tasted. It appears in this form to reveal to man his responsibility to God’s word.

[01:52:56] As Kenny already beautifully pointed out, all the instructions we receive how we respond to the word of God. So the believer is not merely accountable to simply follow the good word of God. He or she is also urged to understand God’s future plan and exercise his power. In verse five, the Greek word there is Dunamase strongs 1411 to benefit the believer as well. Now, the word for power here refers to the miracle of God which is performed in believers and not the impending judgment and destruction which is to come for the unbeliever.

[01:53:35] Now, one must turn his attention back to the phrase in verse four, it is impossible, and combine it with the Greek infinitive and a kind of Zen, the meaning to renew. Again, as we see in verse six, as applied in verse six, this word refers to a repentance that is qualitatively new and different. So if a different form of repentance was needed then as Kenny has made so abundantly clear, if they had to continue with these sacrifices, if it was they’re needed, then Christ’s death would be in vain. This too would be inconsistent. This would completely be inconsistent with the rest of Hebrews.

[01:54:20] If you go to Hebrews 928 and Hebrews ten, verse eleven to twelve. So this teaching is clear. Christ died once for man’s sin. If his death was insufficient, there would be no security for the believer. This is why we speak of eternal security, because if it wasn’t sufficient, there would be no security.

[01:54:41] We would ultimately be no better off than the Muslim or the Buddhist trying to do more good than bad. And then when we die, we kind of just hope for the best. The Christian has security because our God took on flesh and died for our sins. So this is precisely why the writer of Hebrews uses this illustration. Now here’s the problem, and you guys have maybe heard me say this or use this on my lives before.

[01:55:08] In the past, in philosophical language is a mathematical term which in the Latin is called reductio ad absurdum. Reductio ad absurdum, which in English translates to a reduction to absurdity. So if you’ve got a false assumption, it will lead you to absurd conclusions. So if you’ve got a false assumption of the text, it will lead you to an absurd conclusion about what it means. So it would be false to assume that a believer could fall because his repentance based on Christ’s death would be invalidated.

[01:55:49] So there would be no security and Christ wouldn’t be. And then, in actual fact, Christ would have to come back every year, once a year and go back to the cross to pay for our sins. Once a year, as they would go up to the temple or once a week or whatever the case may be, as they would go up to the temple to make these sacrifices again and again and again. So the difficulty of these verses is removed, completely removed, if we recognize when the actual decision to follow Christ becomes true salvation. A person is saved at the point of genuine acceptance of God’s gift of that light which becomes our salvation.

[01:56:32] And then we see, according to Ephesians one six, that we are received by God. So God ultimately judges every human heart. God is the final judge of every human heart and he knows the ones who are truly repentant, as we see in Colossians, as we see in Two Timothy, the Lord knows them that are his. So again we can go to Matthew seven and those who the Lord will turn around and say, I never knew you, because they’ve been trying to work for their salvation. So the decision for salvation is made ineffective when it is based on any form of emotion or our own abilities, as we see in two thessalonians 213.

[01:57:17] So ultimately, again, Kenny gave his overview, that’s my overview, just based on these Greek phrases. And when we look at them in their entirety and we compound them together, we see that there are many different ways that the Greek, and this is ultimately how good God is. I always look at this and I say, wow, God is so incredibly good because from the Greek we were able to get all these different because a lot of the words we use today in English were not even around in the 16 hundreds. So if you go look at a thesaurus or a dictionary from many, many years ago, there are words that weren’t even used then in the English language. So today we see how God used the Greek to perfectly bring together every single translation we have today, every word for word translation we have today in the English language.

[01:58:20] So again, as Kenny’s King James and I read the King James and I always advise that whatever Bible you are reading have more than one translation because ultimately just sticking to a certain translation might lead you to believing things the way we understand it in English. Because the way we say things in English, again, the word perfect to us means many different things. But there is an absolute when it comes to perfection. If I say to anybody that was perfect, your understanding of the word perfect is there were no faults. There were no flaws.

[01:59:06] Where the word perfect in Scripture, as we see again, strongs 50 46, 50 47 and 50 48 show us that there are multiple different ways that the apostle who wrote the book of Hebrews. Brings forth the total understanding. Of what perfection is in the human sense, what it is in God’s sense and what it is in the sanctification process, what it is in the salvation process. And we see that ultimately this chapter where those would like to go to Hebrews six and say, well, this proves that you can lose your salvation, have not understood Hebrews chapter five, because ultimately you’re just going and you’re cherry picking a verse to try and destroy an argument. But no one can do that.

[01:59:57] We can’t destroy and break down walls based on a verse here and a verse there. And this is ultimately why I know Kenny does the same thing, I know Mark does the same thing and we all warn about the same thing. Always go back to the text, whatever we preach, go back to the text, read it for yourself because ultimately anybody can make the Bible say whatever they want it to say. And we’ve seen that there’s some ludicrous and absolutely bizarre theories out there from some of the passages in the Bible. And those of us who preach the word of God sit back and you think oh my word, this dude is fruit loops.

[02:00:41] He’s like completely off the beaten track with what that passage is about. And this is why when people go and they try and debunk eternal security based on Hebrews Six or Hebrews 1026, again, when we get to Hebrews Ten with Kenny’s understanding and the way he explains it in so much, detail. We’ll see again that the author is telling us in Hebrews ten that he’s basically confirming eternal security and showing that the rejection or that willful sin is by rejecting everything Kenny has just said. That’s simply by rejecting that Christ is the finished work, christ is the final sacrifice. Christ is the only way which confirms what the other Apostles said to us throughout Acts.

[02:01:31] Namely where Peter says to us in Acts, chapter four there is no other name given among men by which we must be saved. And that is the man, Jesus Christ. So hopefully that just gives you a little bit of insight into the Greek there and why Kenny mentions the strongs, which I love because a lot of people will teach from a passage and they won’t tell you where to go and research the meat of that passage. And again, a lot of people stay away from the book of Hebrews because it’s a meaty, meaty, meaty book. This is a buffet.

[02:02:08] This is a meat buffet. If you go through the book of Hebrews, it truly is. There’s a lot to take in and 2 hours a session is quite frankly never enough because you could discuss Hebrews six and especially the latter parts from verse 13 through to 20 weekend. Again, there’s so much to unpack there, but for time’s sake, that’s always the issue, especially when Kenny went on a roll there and was preaching fire at all. It was absolutely beautiful.

[02:02:41] But again, I hope you guys were as blessed as I was because that was awesome. Thank you. JD. I want to point out something that really brought my attention to the salvation issue. In this text he’s talking about those who were saved and how they were if you get to verse six to renew them into the printed and we automatically assume and go to he’s talking about salvation.

[02:03:10] And that’s where I guess I differ a little bit, that there is a repentance, a change your mind about God and who Jesus is and I need to be saved. But after you’re saved, there’s also a repentance. As I said, we see in two corinthians where the man living adultery repented and the church repented of how they were handling it. So as Christians we can repent of thing of our sinful ways. So I don’t really see in six that he’s even referring to salvation.

[02:03:46] So that’s just my take, I guess. What I want to leave with you on that is that we can’t just go into a scripture and because it says it just automatically assume this is what it’s saying. I don’t think it is. Here. What they were doing was crucifying.

[02:04:07] This act of sacrifice was a picture of Christ we’ll see later. So it’s good. Thank you, JD.

[02:04:16] I hope you all enjoyed this and I hope sorry I got so carried away. I got a little pumped up here and there, but I tend to do that when I get excited. Truly edifying. It was a blessing, absolute blessing. And yeah, as always, just talking about God’s word and going through God’s word is good.

[02:04:37] So everybody that did stay and listen to it, I’m 100% convinced that God’s word penetrates and cuts through. As you guys saw in Hebrews four, god’s word is sharper than any two edged sword and it cuts through every single. And this is the purpose of what this author is bringing through is this is pretty much the entire New Testament summed up into one epistle. Exactly. So it’s absolutely a book that is not read enough, preached on enough, but yeah, sure.

[02:05:20] Daniel.

[02:05:28] I’m sorry. It has been recorded and will be in whatever you call it, the library, whatever. Oh, that’s awesome. That’s awesome. I was about to say from the top, boss to Kenny.

[02:05:41] Off you go. No, I want a live study. Let me get another drink of water. Well, anyway, guys, I love you very much. God bless you all.

[02:05:53] Thanks again, pastor Kenny, I love you and I will see you all soon. Love you, JD. Thank you for coming and helping me.

[02:06:02] No, I didn’t help you at all. You were on fire. That was so good. From what I heard, that was the Lord leading you, not JD. Yeah.

[02:06:15] Amen. Amen. Absolutely. Praise the Lord.

[02:06:26] I’m always very good. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you all for being here.

[02:06:35] It’s been really good. I’m enjoying the study. I’ve had someone ask me to help go through Hebrews, actually, right before you announced you were going to do this study. So I was like, actually, I’d rather let Kenny do this. Yeah, you’re a lot more experienced than I am, so I’m loving it.

[02:06:55] Thank you. God bless you. Thank you for that. We just all learning together again. I don’t know everything and I’m not right on everything, I know that, but the Holy Spirit is and I rely on him completely to help in our teaching.

[02:07:17] Well, it’s really good and I appreciate it. Thank you. Thank you.

[02:07:30] All right, are there any more comments or questions, things that wasn’t quite clear? Like I said, my son in law is recording it and then we’ll post it. Why can I never remember that word? The depository, all of what we’ve done so far, is there? If you’d like to go back and listen no, Daniel.

[02:07:55] It’s not live. But you can go back and listen to it if you want, catch up.

[02:08:05] But I hope, if nothing else, that just helps you all understand that we cannot lose our salvation. We are secure in Christ for eternity.


[00:00:01] We’ll try to get the recording in tonight. Clint told me that they’re having some. Storms where he’s at, so if it. Glitches, he may lose it, but he thinks he’s got a backup plan, so we’ll just be in prayer about that. Just remember, if anybody has missed any of the studies so far, there’s audio.

[00:00:20] In the depository under my name. So if you’d like catch up on that or review. I want to welcome everybody in. JD is with us. 802 my time.

[00:00:36] So, I guess JD. If you want to open us in prayer, we’re going to go back to. Chapter six tonight, starting around verse 13. Since we just sort of skipped over. It, I ran out of time last week and we skipped over it.

[00:00:53] So there’s some good stuff in there. I think we probably ought to cover. And then we’ll go to six and. Eight or seven and eight if we have time. So, JD, you want to open us in prayer?

[00:01:06] Awesome. Heavenly Father, we thank you for bringing us all together, and Lord, we thank you for your word being read tonight, that every single person that hears the words will adhere and let your spirit work. We invite you in into the study, Lord, that you are with us as we unpack exactly what has been written down and what has been given. Lord, we thank you for each and every single one of our brothers and sisters and exactly where they are at right now, and they walk with you, Lord, that you are the author of perfection and not the author of confusion. We trust that your Holy Spirit will guide our beloved brother Kenny as he delivers the Word and that he is filled with the Spirit.

[00:01:55] As we receive every single word that is written by God and breathed out by you. We thank you for this opportunity that we can share together as brothers and sisters of the faith. And Lord, we thank you for each and every single one of our brothers and sisters on the server, those that have joined and those that haven’t. This is an awesome opportunity for us to grow as brothers and sisters in love for one another. And as we grow in your Word and in your church, in Jesus name we pray.

[00:02:25] Amen. Amen. Amen. Amen. I’d like to start out just last week I didn’t get a chance to, but Monika and Kat and Chris, all the things y’all do to keep this.

[00:02:42] Server going and putting up all the. Verses I quote and all that, just thank you for that, you do a great job with it. And I told JD I felt bad for two or three days last week. He gets out of bed at 02:00. In the morning, I ask him to.

[00:02:56] Be here with us, and I didn’t. Hardly let him speak last week. So this week I’m going to try. To calm down and not get so excited and I’m going to let GD speak some more. So we’re going to start like I.

[00:03:10] Said in chapter six, verse 13, talking. About the certainty of God’s promises.

[00:03:20] As a matter of fact, the whole book of Hebrews to me, a lot of people want to turn it into something that you lose your salvation and you do all this. But actually, Hebrews is a great blessing of promise, of certainty and assurance of our salvation. Not to bring confusion. We talked about last week how it’s. Nothing but Satan that brings confusion and doubt and fear, and that’s not what.

[00:03:46] God wants for us. So Hebrews was written for our assurance, and we’ll talk about that in these verses, the assurance of our salvation in God’s promise. So, JD, if you got anything to. Say, just tell me. Shut up or jump in anytime you get ready because I know you got.

[00:04:07] Some stuff in here you’d like to share too.

[00:04:14] You go ahead, brother. Like I said, I don’t need to say much. The way you deliver it is powerful. Everybody learns you exegete with grace, and you speak a lot slower than I do as well. So I think it’s probably best.

[00:04:33] Praise the Lord that we have you take it away, bro. Thank you all for letting me do this. This has been an awesome privilege. So anyway, we’ll start in verse 13 for when God made a promise to Abraham. Since he had no greater by whom.

[00:04:51] To swear, he swore by himself God. We see if you go back to Genesis 22, verses 16 and 17, where God gives the promise to Abraham. He had offered his went to offer. His son Isaac because he gave him the promise of a son. And then he says in verse 16 and said, by myself I have sworn.

[00:05:16] Says the Lord, because thou hast done. This thing and hast not withheld thy. Son, thine only son, that in blessing. I will bless thee. And in multiplying, I will multiply thy seed as the stars of heaven and as the sand of the sea which.

[00:05:32] Is upon the seashore thy seed shall. Possess the gate of thy enemies. He’s just given Abraham the promise reassurance. Of the promise that he had given. Him, that he would multiply his seed.

[00:05:46] And in his seed all nations would be blessed. So we see that promise here. And then God says, by myself I have sworn, surely saying surely I will. Bless you and multiply you. And thus Abraham, having patiently waited, obtained the promise.

[00:06:08] So in the promise there, it is. Just interesting to me and encouraging to me that even though Abraham was a. Sinner, he had sinned. Remember, he slept with Hagar and had ishmael. That wasn’t God’s plan.

[00:06:24] That was Abraham and Sarah’s plan. Often a little lesson be learned there. God gives us a promise and wants. Us to do things. And a lot of times we think.

[00:06:33] We need to help God out. And usually when we do, we create a bigger mess than if we just rest and wait for God to work. And we also see where he lied. About who Sarah was, saying it was. His sister and different things that Sarah did.

[00:06:51] Abraham had sinned, but the promise still remained because the promise didn’t rely or depend on Abraham’s efforts, but on God’s promise. And boy, that is reassuring to us today. My salvation, your salvation has nothing to do with my efforts. The things that I want to do, try to do, I struggle with. It is God’s promise that we rest.

[00:07:19] In and I’m about to get wired up already. When I talk about Jesus and what he’s done for us on the cross. I can’t help but get excited and. Want you to get excited and understand what you are in Jesus and you can rest in him. So even though Abraham was a sinner.

[00:07:37] God’s promise still remained. God’s promise was based on his promise. He swore by himself and not based on what Abraham did. So this patiently waiting is not like we see in verse twelve of chapter. Six where he says be not slothful.

[00:07:56] Or sluggish in these verses abraham was looking for that promise, was waiting for that promise and doing the things that God had told him to do as he waited. So verse twelve so that you may. Not be sluggish or lazy, that word. There is immature in the faith, but. Imitators of those who through faith and patience inherit the promise.

[00:08:25] The promise to us as Christians is eternal salvation. But in the context of chapters four. Through six, the promise is entering into. His rest from dead works. Remember we went back and looked at.

[00:08:40] Those things in chapters four and five, how we can as believers we can enter there is a rest for us in Christ Jesus. So the promise of salvation, but the promise of entering into a rest, living that victorious Christian life that God has. For us apart from the law, apart. From dead works as he talks about. In verse one of chapter six.

[00:09:05] So remember the context of what we’re in here now is that these are. Jews who have done sacrificial systems for. Ages, thousands of years, and they are. Trying and they’re torn between the law and grace and what Jesus did and what they’ve always done and all these different things. And the writer of Hebrews is trying to make it very clear to them.

[00:09:32] That the law is no more, the. Law is fulfilled in Christ. So the context we see in chapters. 511 through 612 is let us go. On to maturity, understanding what we have in Christ and what he’s done for.

[00:09:50] Us on the cross, his finished and completed work. So he’s wanting them to go on into maturity. He says in six one therefore let us leave the elementary doctrines. My screen. Went out on me, okay, therefore let us leave the elementary doctrines of Christ and go on to maturity, not laying again a foundation of repentance from dead works and of faith toward God.

[00:10:18] We talked about last week that that. Was our justification from repentance of dead. Works and our faith that we put. In God as we believe. What his promise?

[00:10:30] We believe that he would send His Son to die for our sins. We accept Him as our personal Savior, and that is our justification process. Now he’s saying, now that we justified, let’s go on to be sanctified, to be set apart, to be mature believers that produce a good crop, good fruits, when resting in the promises of God. The promise of God for us is his finished work on the cross seven and eight. There’s nothing you can add to it.

[00:11:02] Take away from it. And you can see in verses seven or eight where he makes. The contrast. Between good soil and bad soil that produces good crops and soil that produces thorns and thistles. These are the things we produce as.

[00:11:19] Christians that are tested by fire. We read. So I’m just doing a little bit. Of a recap and coming up this. So now we go on.

[00:11:29] And in this next part, this is the assurance of our salvation was given in God’s oath. It’s in his oath for people. Verse 16 swear by something greater than. Themselves and in all their disputes, an. Oath is final for confirmation.

[00:11:51] So when we go to court or something, you put your hand on the Bible. If you’re going to testify and you say, So help me, you finish with. So help me God, you’re swearing by. An oath greater than you so help. Me God, as you testify in court.

[00:12:08] So verse 17. So when God desired to show more convincingly to the heirs of the promise, abraham and his seed, including us, the promise of an unchangeable character of his. Purpose, he guaranteed it with an oath. So since God could not promise by anything greater than himself, he swore by himself. That’s what it says here.

[00:12:37] When he promised Abraham why is my. Phone sorry, I’m talking to myself while. I’m trying to do this. It just keeps blacking out and I. Can’T see what’s going on.

[00:12:49] And said, by himself, by myself I swore. So he made a promise and then. He made an oath in himself because there is no greater than he. So he made this promise because there was no greater. He swore in himself.

[00:13:08] The promise is not only for Abraham.

[00:13:13] But for all his seed also. We see here in Genesis, where the promise was first given to him. It’s reiterated again here in Hebrews Eleven, he talks about Abraham and his sons was the first promise to them. But we are Abraham seed, spiritually Galatians 329. And if you be Christ, then you are Abraham seed and heirs according to promise.

[00:13:45] So this promise of a I like. How Abraham, when Isaac and him and Isaac were going up the mountain and. See the I see the logs and. I see this and the fire and all that, but where’s the sacrifice, dad? And he said, The Lord himself will provide a sacrifice.

[00:14:06] That was a picture of Jesus Christ. Of what? Abraham knew that God promised one day that he would send a redeemer for the sins of the world to.

[00:14:19] Pay. For the sins of the world. So we see that promise and we inherit that promise too, or we get that promise too. We see in questions. 329.

[00:14:33] Anybody questions or understand? JD, you have anything at this point?

[00:14:42] All right, so, verse 18. So that by two unchangeable things in. Which it is impossible for God to. Lie, we who have fled to refuge. Might have strong encouragement to hold fast to the hope that is set before us.

[00:15:01] The two unchangeable things, the assurance of our salvation is guaranteed by God’s promise. And by God’s oath. I mean, you don’t get any better than that. Not based on the assurance of our salvation is not relying on Kenny. I’m so thankful for that because I fail Him every day.

[00:15:23] I fall short every day. But his promise of my assurance of my eternal security is in Him, in his promise and in his oath. And we’ll look more into that in. Just a little bit how Christ is. The fulfillment of his promise.

[00:15:40] So he says, Hold fast to that hope set before us. Our hope is in the promise and oath of God, not in our efforts. That puts off our confidence in Him. Not ourselves, and lets us rest. Remember what we talked about in chapters four and five or three, four?

[00:16:00] And that lets us rest completely in Him. And that, like David said, gives us the joy of our salvation. So Hebrews is all about the superiority. Of Christ and our rest in Him. There’s no condemnation that many try to make it out to be in Hebrews.

[00:16:28] It just troubles me, I guess is the best nicest word I can say. That how people want to take verses. Out of context in Hebrews and try to make it so scary to the believer. Yes, I believe that we ought to check ourselves or evaluate ourselves from time. To time and make sure that we.

[00:16:49] Are on the right path and that we are right with the Lord. But it’s not a scary thing. Once you’ve accepted Jesus as your personal. Savior and he is your Lord and. Savior, you become his child.

[00:17:02] That never changes. And Hebrews to me, points this out. Very clearly through the superiority of Christ our Savior. So I want to just take a. Minute, I guess, and just talk about.

[00:17:15] This city, this refuge. Flee for refuge. In the Old Testament we see in numbers 35 Joshua 21, Chronicle six. They talk about this city of refuge, these cities of refuge. In these verses, God had appointed six cities, three on each side of the Jordan.

[00:17:39] And what they were for is if a man accidentally killed someone, it was purely an accident. It was not anything malicious or murder. He could flee to one of these cities. And when he was in these cities, the family couldn’t come and revenge or get revenge or avenge the blood of their loved one whom this guy had. Killed while he was in the cities.

[00:18:07] The elders of the city would then investigate the case. If they found that he didn’t commit. Manslaughter or murder, they would allow the. Man to live in that city until. The death of the high priest.

[00:18:21] And then after the death of the high priest, then he could return to his home. The members of the slain man could. Not avenge themselves so long as the man remained in the city of refuge. Beautiful picture of Jesus, our high priest, and the refuge that we find in him forever we hide. He is our hiding place.

[00:18:49] He is our place of refuge where. We are safe and secure in Him. And then the high priest would pass. Away, and then he could return to his home. And it was deemed that this man was innocent.

[00:19:11] So we’ll look at our high priest and Jesus is our refuge forever. We don’t have to worry about him. Passing away and going back home. Jesus is forever. So we are always found in Him, complete.

[00:19:26] He is always our refuge, our hiding place. And the writer will bring this out. In the next two chapters, well, I. Guess through chapter ten, more or less. So I just wanted to bring that.

[00:19:41] Out about refuge a little bit if you’ve never heard that story. I believe everything in the Old Testament, everything in Scripture, points to Jesus Christ. So the next chapter, 619. So we had the assurance that we. Have in Christ or the assurance of.

[00:20:04] Salvation through God’s oath. Now we have the assurance of our salvation in His Son. So in verse 19, we have this promise as a sure and steadfast anchor of the soul, a hope that enters into the inner place behind the curtain. We have this promise. What is this promise?

[00:20:28] It’s Jesus Christ. He is the promised messiah. He is the promised One to come and die and pay for the sins of the world. And that promise that he now gives. In the New Testament, as I said.

[00:20:42] Last week in John 1028, and I give unto them eternal life, and they. Shall never perish, neither shall any man. Pluck them out of my hand. I give them eternal life. That’s the promise.

[00:20:56] Not by me, not by my works, not by my righteousness. He gives it through his precious blood on the cross and me putting My trust in Him. It’s not the law, it’s not your good works. Jesus says our high priest enters into. The holy of holies.

[00:21:15] That’s the place behind the curtain. And ever makes intercession for us as the high priest in the Old Testament, at the Brazen altar, would sacrifice a lamb or bull or goat or whatever. It was, he would take the blood. Of that lamb or whatever animal it was, and he would go for the labor. He’d wash at the labor.

[00:21:36] He’d go through one curtain into the. Holy place, and then he’d go through. The second curtain or behind the curtain, as they would say, that’s the veil where the Ark of the Covenant was, and apply the blood on the mercy seat. It says here that Jesus, our hope, our promise, the anchor of our soul, he enters into that holy of holies to always make intercession for us. We see in 725 wherefore he is able also to save them to the uttermost that come unto God by Him seeing he ever liveth to make intercession for them.

[00:22:18] So, verse 20, where Jesus has gone as a forerunner on our behalf, having become a high priest forever after the order of Melchizedek. So he’s introducing the people here as he’s bringing them step by step. In chapter one, we saw who Jesus was, the creator of all things. He is God, he is eternal. He’s better than angels, he’s better than Moses, he’s better than the prophets, he’s better than the Law, and we can rest in Him.

[00:22:52] And now he’s saying he’s a high priest, and he’s going to say he’s even better than the high priest. And so to summarize the book to this point. He’S wanting us to move on to maturity. He’s wanting these Hebrew listeners to move on to maturity, stop going back and forth between the law and grace, law and grace all the time, but to move on to maturity and to rest in Christ and his finished work on the cross. So we see here in Hebrews two.

[00:23:31] One through four, if we start to drift from that word, then that’s in. Hebrews two one through four, and then. In Hebrews three, seven through 413, then we’ll start to doubt the word. So he’s laying it out here. And I love how Hebrews is laid out.

[00:23:52] It’s just so articulate the way he. Lays it out and puts it in the format that he does. If we start to drift from that word, Hebrews through seven through 413, then. We begin to doubt His Word. And then Hebrews 511 through 612, and we doubt his word, then we get.

[00:24:14] Dull toward the Word. Remember, he said, you’re dull of hearing you’re on the bottle and you ought to be eating meat because you’re drifting from the truth of God’s Word. So we see here in six through. 20 or chapter 613 through 20, the best way to keep from drifting is to lay hold of that anchor. What is the anchor?

[00:24:38] Jesus Christ and his word. And we won’t drift from his word we won’t doubt his word It won’t become dull to Him.

[00:24:50] All right? So that’s all I had on six. JD, do you have any more.

[00:25:02] JD. Went to no, no, I’m trying to mute you.

[00:25:11] That was brilliantly put. Thanks for that, Kenny. You can carry on. All right, anybody got any questions on any of that? You understand that?

[00:25:21] It’s clear. And we’ll move on to chapter seven. You and this candy corn stuff, you all know that mana I heard somebody. Refer to mana was candy corn. You all know mana was marshmallows.

[00:25:40] It was white and soft and sweet to the taste. So candy corn is not mana. Okay? Just want that clear. That’s biblical.

[00:25:49] I’m kidding. All right, so now we’re going to chapter seven. The writer is now, remember in chapter. Five, he was telling him, you’re dull. Of hearing, you’re immature, you’re on the bottle, you need to be meat, you need to be teachers, but you need to be teachers, but somebody needs to teach you.

[00:26:18] You haven’t matured yet as Christians. Well, now in chapter seven, he’s going to give some meat. He’s going to start laying it out into deeper things of what he wanted to tell them. Remember in chapter five, he says he. First introduced that Jesus was after the order of Melchizedek.

[00:26:36] And then he got sidetracked on saying, hey, you need to grow up and you need to mature. And then that maturity. We’re resting in God and his promises. And now he’s going to give Him. Some of that meat.

[00:26:48] So as I said, he introduced the Jesus as our high priest in 2731, 414, 415, five, and 620. So he’s been just sort of giving them little pieces because this is a. Touchy subject for them. Then he began in 510 to compare Jesus to Melchizedek, which they would very much understand. They knew the history of Melchizedek.

[00:27:20] They knew what their father Abraham, the experience that he had with him. So they’re very familiar with it. He’s very relatable to them, and they’re trying to understand or get his point. Across that they can understand clearly. So the writer addresses their maturity and.

[00:27:44] Issue and not be able to go deeper in the subject. Now the writer explains a deeper understanding of how Jesus qualifies as a high priest like Melchizedek. I think I’ve said it before, I think as he was writing this, and never I could almost picture him saying, they’re never going to believe that Jesus is a high priest. They’re never going to believe it. They know that Jesus came of the tribe of Judah.

[00:28:10] He don’t have the lineage, he doesn’t have that. And he’s almost anticipating their argument. They’re saying, no, according to the Levitical law, jesus didn’t meet the requirements of high priest. There’s no way he could be our high priest. So.

[00:28:30] He was anticipating this. And he goes on to explain how. He qualifies as a high priest after Melchizedek. He is superior to the Levitical priesthood of Aaron. We’re going to see in chapter seven.

[00:28:47] Through ten and all that the priest. Did and their requirements to meet the law, the sacrificial system. Jesus is superior to that in these next few chapters. So in chapter ten, he really brings out that Christ priesthood is like Melchizedek and it is superior in order. Chapter eight will discuss that the emphasis is on Christ being a better covenant.

[00:29:18] Than that of the Levitical priesthood that they received. And Hebrews nine, it’s a better sanctuary. We’ll see. He gets into the actual sanctuary of the tabernacle and talks about those things. And in chapter ten, he concludes the.

[00:29:38] Section by arguing that for Christ is a better sacrifice than all they could do. So tonight we’re going to look at the priesthood of Jesus is superior in its order in chapter seven. So he starts off with a historical. Statement that they very much understood, comparing or talking about what Melchizedek and Abraham did in verses one through ten. So verse one for this Melchizedek, King of Salem, priest of the Most high.

[00:30:14] God, met Abraham returning from the slaughter. Of the kings and blessed him. This Melchizedek, other than in Hebrews, is. Mentioned only two times in Scripture in Genesis 1417 through 24. And he’s referred to once more in Psalms 110 four.

[00:30:39] Just to give you without going to that and reading it all, if you’re not familiar with it, these four kings took over an area around Sodom and Gomorrah, and Lot was there, the nephew, I guess, or was he a cousin of Abraham? I can’t quite remember. But Lot was there and he was. Captured and his family, and they took all their stuff and these four kings took them. So they got word to Abraham of.

[00:31:08] What had happened to Lot. And so Lot sent 318 of his. Servants to rescue Lot and all the. Others and all the stuff they took as well. So Abraham goes to battle really against these four kings with 318 servants.

[00:31:27] To. Get Lot back and his family. So after he defeats these four kings and he takes all their spoil and. Gets the family back. On the way back, Abraham meets Melchizedek, and he recognized when he sees him, he recognizes him as the king of.

[00:31:46] Salem or that’s Jerusalem that is old. Jerusalem or before Jerusalem, I guess, was the king of Salem and a priest. Of the most high. So those are important things to remember here, that Melchizedek was both a king and priest. We see in this verse he was the king of Salem and priest of the Most High God.

[00:32:10] The high priest, according to Levitical law. Could never be a king and a. King could never be a high priest. Saul tried to do the work of the high priest and he died by the sword. Uziah tried it in Chronicles 26 and ended up with leprosy.

[00:32:31] So we see that the king and priest didn’t ever go together. But Abraham excuse me, abraham recognized him as King of Salem and priest of. The most High God. So like Melchizedek, Jesus is both king and priest. He is the King of Kings and Lord of Lords.

[00:32:53] He is our high priest who makes intercession for us. And we’ll talk more and more about. That as we go.

[00:33:06] Uh, verse two. And to Abraham apportioned a 10th part of everything. He is first by translation of his name, king of Righteousness. And then he’s also King of Salem, that is, king of peace. So when Abraham saw him, he gave.

[00:33:28] Him a tithe of 10% long before the law ever came out and said, you give 10%. This is what Abraham did. It didn’t originate with the law of Moses, but we see it first here when Abraham offered a tithe or an offering to Melchizedek long before the law was given. Melchizedek name means king of righteousness. He was the king of Salem.

[00:34:01] And shalom means peace. So he’s the king of righteousness. The king of peace.

[00:34:08] I don’t know if it’s David. In the Psalms it talks about Psalm 85 ten. It talks about righteousness and peace have kissed peace have kissed each other. We see that in Christ Jesus, he is our king. He is the King of peace.

[00:34:24] Isaiah 96 for unto us a child. Is born, a son is given, and the government shall be upon his shoulders, the King of Kings, Lord of Lords, and his name shall be called Wonderful Counselor, mighty God, the Everlasting Father, the Prince of Peace. So we see that they come together in that. We see that even like Melchizedek, the King of Salem, the King of peace, we see that in Christ Jesus, he’s making this comparison to them to help them understand exactly who Jesus was, how he could be our high priest after. The order of Melchizedek.

[00:35:09] Now, verse three, he is without father. Or mother or genealogy, having neither beginning. Of days nor end of life, but. Resembling the Son of God. He continues a priest forever.

[00:35:25] Now, a lot of people get mixed up on this. And. I’ve always thought that what I. Understand this is there was no ancestry, there was no documentation for him to prove that he would qualify as a. High Priest, because the High Priest had.

[00:35:52] To come from the tribe of Levi. And had to come from the lineage of Aaron. So Melchizedek didn’t have any of that. There was no Jewish record of who this Melchizedek was. And I lean toward that’s.

[00:36:09] What this reminds me, a lot of. People think that Melchizedek was actually well. There’S some even think that this was a Christophany. I am not convinced that it is or isn’t it very much could have been in a Christophy, if you don’t know what that is. Appearance of Christ in the Old Testament, because a lot of things that he.

[00:36:30] Says certainly identifies with Christ. But I believe Melchizedek was an actual man and was just a type of. Christ that we see. In the Old Testament.

[00:36:44] Where was I at before I got sidetracked on that? It was important to be able to. The Jews to prove their ancestry, to become a high priest. They couldn’t do this with Melchizedek, so.

[00:37:05] He’S without father or mother. No Levitical law or genealogy, no record of this man. But Abraham, the Israel’s patriarch, recognized him as a king and priest. Jesus is our high priest in the same. He had no earthly father, no beginning, as he’s from eternity past.

[00:37:31] And we see in Hebrews one, two. And is for all eternity. We see in Hebrews one, eight. So Jesus is very much fitting their. Understanding of who Melchizedek is in that they have no record of that he is from eternity past, present and future.

[00:37:52] He always is. He is the great I am. He came from a different lineage than of the Levi’s.

[00:38:03] No Levi priest could make that claim without his genealogy. He could not become a priest or a high priest without his credentials. I guess you would say that proved. That he came from this lineage. That was by God’s design that they.

[00:38:21] Had to do that. They also could never make a claim of an endless ministry, as you see here, that he is the Son of God. He continues as priests forever. No priest could ever say he had an endless ministry. We’ll see later on, because they all.

[00:38:38] Died and they could not claim that. They were both king and priest like Jesus was. So he’s stating the case here and. Really laying it out that this is how Jesus is our high priest, much. Like Melchizedek, whom our Father Abraham worshiped.

[00:39:00] And gave him a 10th of his. Spoil of everything that he had so or gotten from them. So then he goes on to say. See how great this man was to whom Abraham the patriarch gave a 10th of the spoils. This was a tithe 500 years before.

[00:39:19] The law, 10% of the spoils that. Abraham took from these four kings during the rescue of Lot. So in doing, as I’ve said that in doing, abraham was acknowledging Melchizedek’s authority. And superiority, and this is what he’s. Wanting these Hebrew listeners to understand and to see, is the authority and the superiority of Christ Jesus, our Savior.

[00:39:51] So everybody with me to this point. I feel like I’ve just been talking and everybody’s sort of quiet.

[00:40:00] This is good stuff. This is good stuff. You’re diving in deep, in deep. And you’ve mentioned everything that a lot of people miss when going over here. Bruce, so, so far, it’s been nothing short of excellent.

[00:40:16] So keep going, Papa Bear.

[00:40:21] Well, thank you, JD. You can jump in here anytime you want to.

[00:40:28] I don’t claim to know it all, but I just want to try to make sure you understand these verses, because so many of them get taken out of context and people use them wrongly. And if you look at the whole. Context of Hebrews, it all fits together and it all makes sense and it all is assuring of what we have in Christ. So I’ll keep going if there’s no questions to this point. And I’m trying my best to just stay cool here and relaxed and I’m not going to get into AHAs and.

[00:40:58] All that stuff and those descendants. Verse five of Levi, the tribe of Levi, the tribe of Levi who received. The priestly office, had a commandment in. The law to take tithes from the. People, that is, from their brothers, or.

[00:41:20] From the brethren through, though these also are deceived from Abraham. And I’ll be quite honest with you, when you read this a lot of. Times you read that one time and. You get to scratch your head like what in the world? It’s sort of a tongue twister, what is he talking about?

[00:41:37] And I’m old school now. JD is smarter than I am and he uses all these Bible Logos programs and figures out words and things like that. The way I have to do it. I’d have to read that verse about ten times and then just sit there. And say, lord, show me what you.

[00:41:53] Want me to see in this, help me to understand. And I think nothing wrong with what. JD does, but I think a lot of times we’ll read a verse like. This and then we’ll just say, well. Let’S go see what a commentary says, or let’s see what somebody else says.

[00:42:09] I would suggest to you, do all. That you can do, ask the Lord. To help you, ask the Holy Spirit to reveal it to you. Keep reading it, keep meditating on it. Keep digging into it until the Lord.

[00:42:21] Gives you an answer. And then go to a commentary and. See if he confirms what the Lord says to you. Because a lot of times you can. Get in trouble going to a commentary because they’re not always right.

[00:42:32] Or I think we ought to have. Friends we bounce things off of, but find out what the Lord’s telling you. Here and just keep studying it. I just want to agree with that. Sorry to cut you off, brother, but no, what Kenny said is absolutely true.

[00:42:50] And I used to do this when I was young in my faith. Read a verse, go to the first commentary that’s available and go, okay, that’s what it means. And ultimately it’s dangerous doing it that way because you don’t come to the fullness of the understanding of the verse. So the way Kenny broke it down there is exactly right. Come to the understanding and then compare your understanding to others understanding and bounce it off your brothers and sisters.

[00:43:17] And again we go to proverbs as iron sharpens iron, so one brother sharpens another brother, or so we sharpen one another. And this is imperative. We have to be like the Bereans, we have to search the scriptures day and night to make sure that what we have been told or what we have taught ourselves. Again, this is why I say it’s dangerous to come to an understanding and then go, okay, well, that’s what I believe it means and that’s what I’m. Going to stick with.

[00:43:47] We have to be open to have these discussions and say, well, this is the route I’ve gone. And this is how I’ve come to that conclusion. And this is why, especially when we’ve gone through the book of Hebrews, generally, people who were once battling with eternal security and the fact that salvation cannot be lost have a deeper understanding of why it cannot be lost. This is why we ask questions to those who say, you can walk away from your salvation or you can lose your salvation. The question remains, what’s the limit?

[00:44:23] So how many sins do you commit until it’s cut off? How many times must you fall short until God says, okay, well, that was the last time you’ve fallen short. You’re now out ultimately, when you have an understanding. And that’s exactly why we mustn’t become dull, dull of hearing. And no Christian is able to stand on his 2ft and be secure in any salvation, his or her salvation, if they are reading the Bible five minutes every two, three, you know, every two or three weeks.

[00:45:07] This is ultimately why we stand on the Scripture. And I don’t know if anyone has heard me say this, but I’ll say it again, you can either believe all of the Bible or none of the Bible. You don’t get to pick and choose.

[00:45:27] Okay, well, I’m going to go with this because this one feels good. We’ve got to understand the fullness of the text. Thanks for that, Nick. I appreciate you, brother. And ultimately, as we get in, as we go through, especially Hebrews eight through ten, again, we see the fullness of the security of the finished work of Jesus Christ.

[00:45:49] This is what it always comes. And when Kenny said earlier, everything in the Old Testament points to the Savior of the world, points to the Messiah, points to Christ, we see this as unequivocally true, because that’s the purpose. It was always about Jesus. It will never stop being about Jesus. And this is why Jesus could make the claims he made in John five, in John 14, because he was and is God incarnate.

[00:46:18] He is the everlasting. When it comes down to the nitty gritties of the text, we see that it’s always been by Him, through Him, for Him. We were not created to live our best life now, but we were created to follow Christ in the fullness and the joy of the Spirit. And ultimately, that’s the trap that the devil sets up for a lot of people, like even those who have started off believing that they are secure and sealed and their salvation cannot be lost, somehow we see them fall onto this path of relying on their own righteousness and their own works. And this is pretty much as Kenny goes through the rest of Hebrews seven, we see that becomes very clear that you cannot rely on anyone other than the high priest.

[00:47:16] And this is what a lot of them missed in a lot of the Pharisees missed this because they were preaching a law that they themselves weren’t keeping.

[00:47:31] Thank you, Judy. I’ll just say this. I bet y’all think I was crazy a while ago. I was talking about manna and candy corn and all that. Somehow I got into the general chat and I wasn’t seeing what you all were putting.

[00:47:44] So I’m back with us now. Sorry about that. But they were talking about candy corn. I thought, Why aren’t we talking about candy corn while we’re talking about Hebrews? But never mind.

[00:47:54] I’ll get out of this. I don’t know how I got into. The general chat from here, but I’m just special. I’m talented that way. So going back to Hebrews 75 and understanding this verse, as the Levitical priest.

[00:48:14] Would receive tithes from their brethren, that was in the law to do that, to support Levitical, the priesthood, and support them, because all they did was the service in the tabernacle or in the temple, and their support came from those who gave tithe. It says they would collect this. And these were descendants of Abraham. These Levitical tribe come through Abraham and Aaron. But Abraham, their father, paid a tithe.

[00:48:51] He didn’t receive a tithe. And so I think best I can understand what this verse is saying here, and those descendants of Levi who received priestly office had a commandment in the law to take tithes from the people, has taken the tithes, that is, from their brothers, though these also are descendants of Abraham. So even these high priests were in. Essence, he’s saying, was given a tithe. Through Abraham, their father.

[00:49:26] But he said in verse six, but this man who does not have his. Descent from them, received tithes from Abraham and blessed him who he had promised. So he’s saying our forefather Abraham paid. A tithe to Melchizedek, who was not. Of the descendants of the Levitical priesthood.

[00:49:50] So again, comparing Jesus to Melchizedek and how we give our offerings or our tithes when you give your offerings. Now, we don’t really call it tithes. Or I don’t anymore in church. It’s more of an offering to the you’re giving it to the Lord. You’re not giving it to the church, you’re not giving it to the preacher.

[00:50:11] You give as unto the Lord and as he leads you, whatever that amount is. And I won’t get into all the tithing. Everybody goes by 10%. And if you want to do that. That’S a good rule of thumb, I.

[00:50:25] Guess, because that was Old Testament. But I don’t believe today we are. Required to give the ties of the law. If you really want to do that, the ties of the law. Once you added them all up, they.

[00:50:37] Were equivalent to almost 30% of your income. So I don’t think we do that today. If you want to go by strictly by the law and be dogmatic about. It, then you ought to be given more than 10%. I always just tell my people, well.

[00:50:51] How much should I give? I just ask them, how much do you want to be blessed? Because that’s the only scripture in the Bible that God says, Test me and. See.

[00:51:04] I love a cheerful giver. I will bless a cheerful giver. So I’m not going to get into. Tithing here, but just maybe a little bit of touch on that. So Abraham gave this tithe, this 10%.

[00:51:16] To Melchizedek, and he says it’s beyond dispute in verse seven that the inferior. Is blessed by the superior. What in the world does that mean? Well, when Abraham gave this tithe, Melchizedek blessed him. Abraham bowed down and worshiped him, recognized him as the King of Salem, the prince of Peace.

[00:51:44] And in tithing to him, Abraham received the blessing. So it goes back to what I. Just said a while ago. How much do you want to be blessed? You give to the Lord.

[00:51:57] The Lord blesses you. US being inferior to the Lord or to Jesus. When we give, we are blessed in a special way. The less is blessed of the better. Is what this is saying here.

[00:52:13] So we have an eternal blessing of salvation through God and the promise of his Son. He’s telling these Hebrew people that the blessing comes through our assurance of our salvation, the promises and the oath that God made of the assurance that we can rest in Christ. What a blessing that is. So in verse eight, in the one case, ties are received by mortal men by the Levitical priesthood. But in another case, by one of.

[00:52:47] Whom it is testified that lives.

[00:52:53] One might even say that Levi himself, who received tithes, paid tithes through Abraham. So he’s just going back to verse five. He’s just still really driving this home. Is that even those priests that receive. Ties and you know, you should give them according to the law and all.

[00:53:14] That, even through Abraham, through his loins. He goes on to say in verse ten, these priests let me go ahead and read verse ten. For he was still in the loins of his ancestor when Melchizedek met him. So he’s just driving home that these priests, these high priests that take ties. And you put on this pedestal and all that, in a way, gave ties.

[00:53:40] And offerings to Melchizedek, whom Jesus is. A similitude of or a symbol of, gave these ties and offerings to Melchizedek. These priests even did that. The Levi’s took the tithes from men, but Abraham gave the tithes to in Abraham, the Father of Israel, bowed down and worshiped. The Levites would have bowed down and worshiped Melchizedek because they were descendants of.

[00:54:13] Abraham, but Melchizedek was not a Levite. Melchizedek. Blessed Abraham. We see in verse seven again doing. The comparison of Jesus to Melchizedek.

[00:54:26] We owe him everything. We worship him. He is enough. He doesn’t come from the lineage of these Levitical priests. He doesn’t have the ancestry, he has no beginning, no end.

[00:54:43] Like Melchizedek. We worship him. We owe our ties and offerings to Him of who gave so much for us. So he goes on to the next section here. The priesthood of Jesus is superior in order.

[00:55:02] It was superior in its order. Now he gives a doctrinal reason comparing. Christ to Aaron in verse eleven through 25. So in verse eleven. Now if perfection or completeness or fulfillment had been attainable through the Levitical priesthood, for under it the people received the Law.

[00:55:25] So what further need would there have. Been for another priest to arise after. The order of Melchizedek, after than one. Named after the order of? And here again is another tongue twister.

[00:55:40] Kind of thing, and that you have. To sort of just break it down. Of what he’s saying. Here what he is saying that not only is Jesus greater than Aaron, but. Jesus has replaced Aaron.

[00:55:54] Now remember when he said remember they rocked back on their heels when he said he was greater than Moses? Now he’s going on to say that Jesus is even greater than the Levitical priesthood, their high priest whom they had always gone to and offered the sacrifices for sin and went to for all their that was the spiritual leader of Israel. And he’s saying that Jesus is superior than that. And he said he had to be. Because if the Levitical priesthood through which the people received the Law, if that could have I’m getting ahead of myself, but if that could have made the.

[00:56:39] People perfect or been complete, then there would have been no need for Jesus after the order of Melchizedek, like Melchizedek, there wouldn’t been no point for Jesus. If the Law could have saved anyone.

[00:56:58] If the high priest after the order of Aaron could have made us perfect through the Law, then there would have been no more need for Jesus to become our High Priest after the order of Melchizedek. So this is what this verse is. Saying and he really starts to dig. Deep into this here. For when there was a change in the priesthood, there is necessitive change in the law as well.

[00:57:25] So the Mosaic Law.

[00:57:30] Was not a. Permanent system, it was not a permanent. Thing, as many will say on TikTok and all those you’re going to do the Ten Commandments and keep his commandments. Forever, those were a schoolmaster to bring us or to Christ and prepare the way for Christ. We see that in Galatians 319 through four, chapter four seven.

[00:57:55] This is what the Law did. It was a temporary system for Christ to fulfill, to bring us to Christ. It was added to show us our sin and how far short we come. And I remember when I used to be a fireman and we’d have Bible. Studies at the fire station, and one of the guys came in and I’m.

[00:58:20] Really not sure what denomination he was. Then, but we were going over the. Law and he was asking about keeping the law. And I just told him, I said, do you know when God gave the. Law, he never intended man to keep it.

[00:58:35] And I say that in a way. That he knew that man would never keep it. God never expected us to keep the law. He knew we couldn’t. There was no way to do it.

[00:58:47] The law was to point us to Christ to tell us that we need a savior. The law could not save. It pointed us to the one who could save. And Jesus fulfilling the law made him the perfect sacrifice for the sins of the world. So when Jesus fulfilled the law, he changed the priesthood and the law forever with a new covenant.

[00:59:15] I don’t know how us drive that home. There’s some people that just really hung. Up on this Old Testament law, and I’m not saying it’s bad. The law is for an unbeliever to. Understand how far short for all have sinned and come short of the glory of God.

[00:59:34] Here’s the law. This is how short you’ve come and. You look into that law and you realize, there’s no way I can do this. I need a savior. It should be your next response.

[00:59:46] I need the one who can do this. And that was only accomplished in Jesus Christ. And when he accomplished it, he gave. Us a new covenant. Verse 13.

[00:59:58] For the one whom these things are. Spoken, jesus belongeth to another tribe, not. The Levitical tribe.

[01:00:10] From which no one has ever served at the altar, only. The tribe of Levi. Through the tribe of Levi, the priest. Would come and serve. We see that as God gives that in Deuteronomy ten eight, that it was.

[01:00:26] Only through the tribe of Levi that would do the sacrificial system and serve. Within the temple or the tabernacle. So.

[01:00:40] At that time, the Lord separated the tribe of Levi into bear the ark of the covenant of the Lord, to stand before the Lord, to minister. Unto him, to bless his name unto this day. This is deuteronomy. Ten eight. Oh, thank you.

[01:00:57] You got that up there? Good job. So he goes on to verse 14. For it is evident that our Lord. Has descended from Judah not from Levi.

[01:01:10] The tribe of Levi, but from the tribe of Judah. And in connection with that tribe, Moses said nothing about priests. There was nothing in the law of Moses or Moses law that ever gave any circumstances that anyone was allowed to become a priest or do priestly duties other than of the tribe of Levi. But Jesus came from the tribe of. Judah like Melchizedek, no beginning, no end.

[01:01:41] Nothing about a tribe, but he came as the order of Melchizedek. This becomes even more evident when another. Priest, verse 15, arises in the likeness of Melchizedek. So all the law, the Old Testament, the Levitical priest, the Arianic, I think. Is how you say it, priesthood, all.

[01:02:05] That could not bring perfection. So we see that it was more. Evident, it was more what’s the word? It was important that Jesus would to. Come because this system, this sacrificial system and the priesthood could not do what.

[01:02:28] It needed to do. So Jesus had to come from another tribe, not a tribe ordained by men or through, he’ll say later, a carnal. Command or law, but by God after the order of Melchizedek, verse 16, who has become a priest not on the. Basis of legal requirements concerning bodily descent, but by the power of an indestructible life. Now, you all know and ESV and all that, that’s fine, but to me, King James is a whole lot clearer here, who is made not after the law of a carnal commandment.

[01:03:08] He’s talking about jesus. He didn’t come after the law of the commandments of the law, the carnal. Law, but after the power of an endless life. He was not become our high priest through the law, but was ordained by God. We’re going to see later on that through his promise and through his oath, jesus came not after ordinances of men.

[01:03:36] And Old Testament things he quotes here in 17, Psalms 110, the second time Melchizedek is mentioned in Scripture after Genesis.

[01:03:49] For it is witnessed of him you. Are a priest forever after the order of Melchizedek. That’s God making his promise and making an oath of the promise of his Son, who would come not of the. Tribe of Levi, but of the tribe of Judah, without father, without mother, without. Midgenning, without end, after the order of Melchizedek.

[01:04:15] He is promising his Son here. Many that want to say that the Old Testament, they didn’t know about all that. Yes, they absolutely did. If you read the Old Testament, if you understand what he’s talking about and the God’s promise of a savior to die for the sins of the world. A high priest that cannot be touched.

[01:04:36] With feelings of our infirmities, who becomes man to identify with us, to be our kinsman. Redeemer as we’ve all talked about to. This point, I hope this is all. Coming together for you, as you see. This clearly throughout Scripture.

[01:04:52] As JD says, it’s all about Jesus and how he redeems the world to God on his behalf. So let me calm down, let me get my breath. So verse 18. For on this one hand, a former commandment is set aside because of what? Its weakness and uselessness.

[01:05:19] He’s talking about the law. He’s talking about the secret sacrificial system. These Hebrew listeners would have just about. Fell out here and passed out. And as we say in the south, we’d have thrown up at this.

[01:05:33] That terrible. We would say, wait a minute. You just said that the Law was. Weak, it was useless, it was for not. No, it wasn’t for not.

[01:05:44] It was to bring you to Christ. It was to reveal the sin. How far short you came. Romans eight three. For what the Law could not do.

[01:05:56] Say that oat to yourself a thousand times. What the Law could not do. What the Law could not do in that it was weak through the flesh. God sending his own Son in the likeness of sinful flesh and for sin, condemns sin. Condemns sin in the flesh.

[01:06:16] The law couldn’t do it. What the law couldn’t do, jesus did. JD. Help me. Stay calm here.

[01:06:23] I’m not going to start preaching. I get excited. And we just understand that we are. No longer under the Law, but under grace. Live in that grace.

[01:06:34] You’re saved by grace, live by grace. Rest in the finished work of Jesus Christ on the cross. The law was weak. All of our religious stuff is weak, and it’s as filthy rags. We are complete in Christ and what he did for us on the cross.

[01:06:55] I don’t understand these people that just want to keep going back to the Law. You just don’t understand Scripture at all. To me, I love them, I pray for them, but wow. Okay, I’ll digress and move on. Listen to the next verse, verse 19.

[01:07:13] For the Law made nothing perfect. It made nothing perfect. But on the other hand, a better hope is introduced through which we draw near to God. That’s awesome. The law made nothing perfect.

[01:07:32] The purpose of the Law was only. To point us to Christ, who makes. Us perfect or righteous before God.

[01:07:43] I don’t know how you can read that and not understand what we are in Christ, and we are complete in Christ, and we are no longer under the Law. Yes, it’s a schoolmaster to bring us. To Christ, but.

[01:07:59] We’Ll get into writing it on our hearts and all that stuff and how that works. And the Holy Spirit now reveals to. Us the laws of God, of what. He wants us to do and not do. We don’t have to go by these stone tablets or these things written on pages, and we try to live up to them.

[01:08:20] People, you’re saved by grace, live by grace. Rest in the finished work of Jesus Christ. That’s good stuff. That is good stuff. I still got more verses.

[01:08:31] Let’s keep going. All right. Any questions to this point?

[01:08:41] All right. The Law only tells you you’re a sinner. Verse 20. And it was not without an oath. And it was not without an oath, for those who formally became priest were.

[01:08:56] Made such without an oath, the Law. Could not make perfect. It was introduced of a better hope. A hope in Jesus Christ. The Law was not given with an oath.

[01:09:11] Y’all understand that? God didn’t give an oath about the law. He says, this is my commandments. Do them. And it’s interesting to me.

[01:09:21] When Moses got the Ten Commandments and he read it to the children of Israel, remember that story? And he come down and he read it all to them. What was their response? All the Lord has said, we will do. And Moses basically said, no, you won’t.

[01:09:37] The very next thing Moses did went and made a blood sacrifice. It’s all about the blood of Jesus Christ. That’s the only way you’ll ever satisfy God’s law, is through Jesus Christ and his blood that he shed for us on the cross. So the law wasn’t with an oath. The priests weren’t made by an oath.

[01:09:58] No priest of the Order of Aaron was ever ordained and established on the. Basis of God’s personal oath. They only became priest after the law and commandments, not an oath.

[01:10:18] But this one was made a priest. This one, Jesus Christ was made a. Priest with an oath, with a promise. And a God swear by himself that no matter an oath by the one whom said, the Lord has sworn and will not change his mind. That’s good.

[01:10:40] The matter is settled, and it cannot be changed. Jesus will be your high priest. He will ever make intercession for you through his shed blood on the cross, always before the Father. For you the matter settle. When God says, I give unto them eternal life and they shall never perish, his mind does not change.

[01:11:07] You can’t change it. You can’t do anything about it. Let me explain how I do that. And I gave JD. One of my favorite verses is Jeremiah 29.

[01:11:20] I think it talks about Jeremiah. And he was preaching or wanting to. Preach, and the people weren’t listening. He’s getting so frustrated, and he just. Says, that’s it, I’m done.

[01:11:29] I quit. I’m not going to be a preacher anymore. He says, but this fire in my bones, I cannot stay. I’m weary. It shut up in my bones withholding I cannot thank you for that, for.

[01:11:46] I hear many whispering. You’d see what he’s saying there? He can’t be quiet. Why can’t he be quiet? Because the Holy Spirit within him won’t let him.

[01:11:57] Those who say you can walk away. From your salvation, I say no, in. The nicest way I can put it. There is no way, because the Holy Spirit within you will convict you of the truth. And once you know truth, you can’t.

[01:12:12] Unknow truth, and the Holy Spirit will keep you. His mind does not change. He keeps you. You put a fire in your bones knowing that this is right, and I cannot walk away from it. So if you have truly accepted Jesus as your personal savior, I hear this all the time.

[01:12:31] Well, no, jesus won’t never. God won’t never take it back. But I can walk away from it. I bet you can’t. Not if you understand how the Holy Spirit works in your life.

[01:12:42] You can’t even walk away. And it’s not a thing about will, it’s the fire in your bones of knowing the truth and wanting to share the truth of the gospel. You can’t leave it. So I hope you understand that today his mind does not change. He is going to be a priest forever after.

[01:13:04] The order of Melchizedek. I told you I’m crumb. I bet you can’t. So I get a little country sometimes. I’m sorry, but verse 22 this makes.

[01:13:15] Jesus the granter of a better covenant. Now this is the first mentioned of a covenant. Remember back in chapter two, he first mentions a high priest. Now he first mentions a covenant here. In Hebrews, which means he’s building on something.

[01:13:32] He’s going to begin to build on this better covenant. The word surety means the one who. Guarantees the term of the agreement will carry it out. One, Timothy two. Five.

[01:13:49] For there is one God and one mediator between God and man, the man Jesus Christ. So it’s interesting to me that the. King James says by so much was. Jesus made a surety of a better testament. We are sure of this.

[01:14:09] We can rest in know they talk about the verse. Well, I’m having a hard time not remembering verses, but it’s the death of the testator. There couldn’t be a fulfillment. You know what’s neat about Jesus? When someone here on earth dies.

[01:14:28] My father just passed away a few. Weeks ago and I’m the executor of. The state and I have to take his will and make sure it’s carried out according to what he wants because he’s no longer with us. When Jesus made a covenant, not only did he make the covenant, he lives forever for us, making sure his covenant, his own personal covenant is being fulfilled. As he said it would.

[01:14:54] So it’s the surety of a better covenant because it is given to us by Jesus Christ and he is making sure that that covenant is being filled in our lives every day. Even more grounds to understand our eternal. Security, our assurance that we have in Christ. It’s not on our worst or our things that we do, but on what he does through us. So Jesus.

[01:15:25] Has an eternal heavenly priesthood and was established by his finished work on the cross and being the perfect. Lamb of God by his character who. Knew no sin, by the oath of God, the promise and the oath of. God and he is eternal. He ever maketh intercession for us.

[01:15:48] What a great salvation. How shall we escape so great a salvation? By thinking that we can lose it. Or that God’s going to take it. Away from us, or we are secure in Him.

[01:16:02] I honestly just don’t see how and. It’S not make belittling salvation. Some will say that I’m getting off. On a rabbit trail here, but I. Got to catch this one that some.

[01:16:19] Will say, well, you say that you’re saved so you can live all any way you want to. Are you crazy? That would be like me marrying my wife and then saying, okay, I’m going to go with all these other women and sleep with whoever I want to. I wouldn’t last long. My wife would make sure of it.

[01:16:38] For one thing we got to understand. As we’ll see in Hebrews chapter twelve. Is that once you’re his child, then. God is your father. He’s not going to let you go just down any path you want to and live any way you want to.

[01:16:57] I think we water down God’s ability to keep his children in line when we make that statement, oh, you’re saved and so now you just think you can live any old way you want to. No, I absolutely cannot because my Father in Heaven will straighten me out in a hurry. He’ll take me to the woodshed quickly. If I step out of line and I’m guaranteed that. Okay, I’m sorry I chased that rabbit a little bit too much, so let me get on.

[01:17:25] The former priests were many in number, but they were prevented by death from continuing in office. But.

[01:17:36] He holds his priesthood permanently because he continues forever. The former priest remember how they would die and then the one in the. City of refuge would let free at that death. These priests could not live because of sin. They could not live forever because of sin.

[01:17:58] But Jesus and his priesthood lives forever because he knew no sin. He became sin for us, but he. Himself knew no sin, so he ever. Intercedes for us permanently. Consequently, he is able to save to the uttermost those who draw near to God through him.

[01:18:21] Since he always lives to make intercession. For them, he is always making intercession for us. Don’t let Satan beat you down, destroy. You, steal your joy that you have in Christ the rest that you have. And talk about how terrible.

[01:18:40] Yes, we are terrible. But that’s why Jesus died on the. Cross for our sins, to free us from this bondage of sin that we. Rest in Christ Jesus, my Savior. So now the writer has established that why God changed the order of the priesthood from Aaron to after the order of Melchizedek.

[01:19:03] The priesthood and the law were imperfect. Because they were imperfect they could not continue forever because of sin. These priests would die and they couldn’t continue forever. And in three God swore by an. Oath that a new order would come.

[01:19:22] And we’ll see that here in just a little bit as we go on down. For it was indeed fitting that we. Believers should have such a high priest. Holy, innocent, unstained, separated from sinners and. Exalted above the heavens.

[01:19:42] Jesus was called of God, promised of. God, sent by God and exalted by God. No high priest of the Levitical priesthood. Could ever make that claim, but Jesus could. Promised of God, called by God, sent by God and exalted by God.

[01:20:07] That might be a good outline message right there. I might have to write that one down. So he has no need, like those priests, to offer sacrifices daily. There was no need of that. I think this almost is a reflection.

[01:20:24] Back to Hebrews six six, where those. Sacrifices and all those things would never bring repentance that you’re crucifying afresh the Son of God. These high priests didn’t need to do that. Jesus has no need to offer himself. Daily to continue to do that.

[01:20:44] You’re just crucifying the Son of God afresh. Those high priests did it every day as a picture of Jesus who would come and die for the sins of. The world. First for his own sins. Let me go back and just start.

[01:20:59] The beginning of the verse. He has no need. Jesus, like those high priests, the Levitical. Priests, to offer sacrifices daily for his. Own sins and then for those of the people.

[01:21:13] We saw where the high priest, when he made this sin offering, he didn’t just do it for the people, he had to do it for himself. But Jesus, he offered a sacrifice, his. Blood for the sacrifice, for the sins of the world, and that he was sinless. He didn’t offer it for himself. He didn’t die for himself.

[01:21:33] He died for the sins of the world. And the only way he could do that and then he was perfect, he was sinless. That’s why he was accepted by God. Since he did this once for all. When he offered up himself, jesus died.

[01:21:50] Once and for all. You don’t have to keep going back and recrucifying him. He can’t be recrucified. We’ll see that later in the chapters coming. So for the law appoints men in.

[01:22:05] Their weakness as high priest. These high priests are the law and the commandments. They became priests. But the word of the oath we talked about the promise and the oath in Psalms 110, which came after later. Than the law, appoints a son who has been made perfect forever.

[01:22:29] Jesus is our high priest and he’s driving that home to them. And he is our high priest in that in comparison to Aaron, the priestly duties of Aaron, jesus priesthood is superior in the order. After Melchizedek we’ve seen here in chapter. Seven, we might be able to go to chapter eight. I think it’s just a few 13 verses.

[01:23:04] I remember me right and just get my brain right. We might can get through that tonight if y’all want to continue to go. So Jesus is the fulfillment of the. Priesthood and the law. He is superior in order.

[01:23:20] He is superior than the high priest. Now we’re going to see that he. Is superior in the covenant. JD. You got anything while I’m bringing up.

[01:23:31] Another page of notes here? No, I’m digging the Southern Baptist creature tonight laying down the full loaves of cornbread. Yeah, I’m loving it, man. It’s awesome. Praise the Lord.

[01:23:51] Anybody got any question? Anything you don’t understand that we can make clear somehow?

[01:24:03] I don’t want to rush ahead and get too far. I want you to understand that like. I said, my goal is to point you to Jesus. And if you’re not getting there, then I’m failing.

[01:24:18] All right, chapter eight. So in Hebrews eight, the emphasis is on we talked about Jesus’s superior over the order of the priesthood. Now he’s superior over a better covenant. Wait, question.

[01:24:47] We got a question.

[01:24:54] Are we allowed to punish our animals?

[01:25:02] I certainly hope so, because I do.

[01:25:08] I don’t think we should be cruel. To them, but we do need to correct them and try to teach them. And train them anyway. Chapter eight, the emphasis on a better covenant. Chapter eight, the writer takes the time to reflect on what we have learned so far to summarize chapters one through seven.

[01:25:31] He goes on to explain why Jesus is superior to the old covenant, the old priesthood. He explains why the old covenant could. Not work, the need for a new and better covenant. He tells of a new covenant. Remember in the last chapter he first.

[01:25:49] Introduced the word covenant there, or testament. And how it’s superior to the old. Covenant that Jesus fulfilled it. So now question, is that so now. In verse one now the point in.

[01:26:08] What we are saying is this now. That we’ve got to this point, we have such a high priest. We have that high priest who is seated at the right hand of the throne of the majesty on high. Remember, that was very important for the Hebrew listeners to understand because in the. Tabernacle or in the temple there was.

[01:26:31] All kinds of furniture and things, but there was one thing that was always. Never there, and that was a place. For the high priest to set down because his work was never completed. It was never finished. But when Jesus offered himself, when Jesus died on the cross for our sins and ascended to the majesty on high, he sat down.

[01:26:53] It is finished. It is done. Salvation’s work is complete. So they needed to really understand that that Jesus sat down. Verse two, a minister in the holy.

[01:27:08] Place, in the true tent that the Lord set up and not man. So Jesus offered his blood not on. The holy of holies, not in the holy of holies here on earth on top of the mercy seat, but on a mercy seat. We’re going to see in the, I think, chapter nine on the mercy seat. In heaven, a place what was here.

[01:27:33] On earth was a shadow or a type of what’s in heaven. And I’ll try to show you some of that as we go. In the next two chapters, we have. A high priest, one making intercession for. Us based on his finished work, he.

[01:27:49] Sat down at the right hand of. Throne of the Majesty on high, making. Him superior to earthly High Priest, making Jesus superior to the work of the High Priest and that he set down. He superior to Moses, the Law, the. Angels, allowing us through Him to come.

[01:28:10] Boldly to the throne of grace, as we see in Hebrews 416. Let us therefore come boldly unto the throne of grace that we may obtain mercy and find grace to help in a time of need. Through Jesus we now have access into the Holy of Holies. I think my daughter last week put the Praise God, the veil is rent, the veil is tore from top to bottom. It’s opened up for whosoever will through the blood of Jesus Christ, we have access right to the throne of God, where we can cry, abba, Father, I can crawl right up in his lap.

[01:28:55] Through the blood of Jesus Christ, who. Has cleansed me from all my sins. So we boldly come into that throne of grace. So Jesus is superior because of his. Work, because of the work of the.

[01:29:09] Father and not man. Okay, every High Priest, verse three for. Every High priest is appointed to offer gifts and sacrifices. Thus it’s necessary for the priest also. To have something to offer.

[01:29:28] After the true tabernacle in Heaven, jesus. Fulfilled a heavenly ministry, not an earthly ministry, as we seen in verse two. That this is a true tent, not. One made by man, but a tabernacle in Heaven, a picture of what’s in Heaven. And if you’re not getting that, just hold on.

[01:29:51] We’re going to get deeper into that understanding. The contrast between an earthly tabernacle and a heavenly tabernacle. And it’s actually a type of what is in Heaven. We’re going to see that. So the Old covenant could not work.

[01:30:09] Now, if he were on Earth, he. Would not be a priest at all, since there are priests who offer gifts according to the Law. So if he had offered here on Earth, he wouldn’t have become our High Priest. He would just been a normal priest. He could not be a priest after an earthly tabernacle is what the writer is saying here.

[01:30:38] He did not become an earthly High. Priest of the tribe of Levi, as we saw, but he was superior to. Those High Priests because he fulfilled all. The Law as our High Priest after. The Order of Melchizedek, a superior priesthood of a heavenly tabernacle.

[01:30:59] It says in verse or I’m sorry, verse five, we’re going to get into this comparison between the earthly and the heavenly. They serve a copy, a shadow of heavenly things. Did y’all know that that all that’s in the tabernacle, the temple was a. Picture or a shadow of Heaven? Of what’s?

[01:31:23] In heaven. For when Moses was about to erect the tent, the tabernacle here on Earth, he was instructed by God, saying, see that you make everything according to the. Pattern that was sworn shown you on the mountain. And I hope you know that when he went up on Sinai, everybody knows he got the Ten Commandments. What else did he get?

[01:31:50] He got what I call the blueprints to the tabernacle. God gave him the Ten Commandments, and then he gave him the tabernacle both on Sinai. And when God gave him, he said. You do it exactly like I said do it. God gave him all the dimensions, all the materials, the gold, the Akaya wood or some pronounce it shittam wood or whatever, the bronze, all the fabrics, all the goat skins and ram skins and battered skins and all those things, all are a picture.

[01:32:27] And they point to Christ in one way or another. The outer curtain and its gates and its pillars and its columns and its cords and its stakes. All these things where God gave exactly how many, what size, where to put them, everything. And he said, you be sure, Moses. You build exactly what I say because it was a picture or a shadow.

[01:32:52] Of a heavenly thing we’re going to see. So right now I just want to sort of maybe go over some of that with you. So you get this picture, I hope, and I don’t know if some of you could bring up pictures of the. Brazen altar, the earthly I meant to. Have this for you, but I just.

[01:33:11] Didn’T slipped my mind. The earthly tabernacle or later temple, was a type or shadow of heavenly tabernacle. The Brazen altar in Isaiah 66, you. See Isaiah before the Lord. And he says, then flew one of the seraphims unto me, having a live coal in his hand which had taken.

[01:33:32] With the tongs off the altar a brazen altar in heaven, a place where. The lambs and the bulls and the goats and all that were sacrificed. The blood was shed. The four horns on each side of it where these animals were tied to this altar. And they were sacrificed for the sins of the people.

[01:33:55] Jesus was placed on a cross, and his hands and his feet were bound. As he shed his precious blood for. The sins of the world, for my sins and for your sins. The cross is the picture of the Brazen altar. Or the Brazen altar is a picture of the cross where the blood was.

[01:34:13] Shed, going back to Isaiah 66. And he took one of these tongues. Off the altar and he laid it. Upon my mouth and said, lo, this hath touched my lips. And thy iniquity is taken away, and thy sin is purged.

[01:34:28] So at the cross, our sins are our iniquities, our sins are taken away. And our sins were purged through the work of Jesus on the cross, through his shed blood. So the Brazen altar is a picture of judgment. It’s made of bronze. Bronze is always judgment in Scripture.

[01:34:48] Most always referred to as judgment in Scripture. And as you went on from the eastern gate, the Brazen altar first, then the labor was next. It was also made of bronze. It had water in it that they would wash their hands and their feet. And in the bottom of this labor thank you, Tigre.

[01:35:11] That’s the Brazen altar made of bronze and the four horns and the staves. That would hold it up and they could carry it. So now we come to the Laver. And it’s interesting about the Lather. Remember I said God told Moses, you make it exactly how I said.

[01:35:31] And God gave every dimension and all that. The only thing God said about the. Laver was make it a bronze, fill. It with water to wash their feet and polish the bronze or polish and. Make mirrors in the bottom of it.

[01:35:47] Now, the labor is a picture of. God’s word, the cleansing power of God’s. Word in our life. As we look into the word of. God, the living water, we see ourselves.

[01:36:00] The high priest, as he would wash his hands. He didn’t see all of Israel who sinned. He saw himself a sinner that needed. To be cleansed, that needed his sins. Cleanse, that he had done.

[01:36:16] And the interesting part about the labor. Is there was no dimensions God gave. No, the only piece of furniture in the tabernacle god didn’t give strict dimensions about. I believe that is because there is no limit to God’s power to cleanse. The sinner of his sin.

[01:36:40] Where sin abounded, grace did much more abound. There is no limit to God’s cleansing power. So he didn’t give any dimensions at the labor. We see the labor in heaven, a type of the labor in Revelation Four. Six, I believe, in 15 two.

[01:37:01] And before the throne there was a sea of glass likened a crystal. And in the midst of the throne and roundabout the throne were four beasts full of eyes. And before and behind and in chapter. 15, verse two, there’s the labor. Thank you.

[01:37:15] And I saw as it were a sea of glass mingled with fire. The bronze is judgment, fire is judgment. This sea of glass and them that had gotten the victory over the beast and over the image and over his mark and over the number of his name stand on the sea of glass having the harps of God. He said, Brother Kenny, that don’t sound. Like labor to me.

[01:37:41] That’s water. Thank you. These are exactly right. Once we’re in heaven, in our glorified bodies, there is no more need for cleansing from sin. We stand perfectly righteous before the throne.

[01:37:57] Of God without sin. And so this sea of glass is glassed over, but it’s still there as a picture of the labor in heaven, the picture of what the labor used to do here on earth. But they’re standing before the throne of. God with their sins washed away. Then you come in as you go into the tabernacle itself, into the first.

[01:38:23] Section, into the holy place is this first compartment is called.

[01:38:34] Is the altar of incense. Now, that’s straight ahead, right in front of the if you walk through the first curtain, you look straight ahead. Right in front of the veil was this altar of incense. It was made of a kaya wood overlaid with gold. It had horns on it.

[01:38:53] This is where you saw John the Baptist father praying when the angel appeared to him and said, you’re going to have a son. This was the altar of incense. And in Revelation 83, it says, another angel came and stood at the altar having a golden censor. And there was given unto him much. Incense that he should offer it with.

[01:39:17] The prayers of the saints upon the golden altar which was before the throne. There you go. You can see it there, right before the veil. Thank you, Ashley. You’re doing such a great job that.

[01:39:32] This altar of incense is where the high priest would go. He would get coals off the altar. Or off the brazen altar out in the courtyard, and he would bring those. Coals and put the incense on it and burn them on this altar of incense as he began every day in prayer. And he ended every day at this altar of incense in prayer.

[01:39:55] And as this incense went up and. This smoke went up, it was a. Sweet smelling savor in the nostrils of God continually, every day, the priest would begin his day there and end his day there. Anybody getting the picture? You begin your day in prayer and.

[01:40:13] Pray all day and end your day in prayer. There’s a picture of the altar of incense in heaven as we see as this angel stood before this altar with a golden censor. And he talks about the prayers of the saints. He’s the way, the truth and the life. Exactly.

[01:40:33] So we come next. If you’re coming in this first curtain, you look straight ahead the altar of incense. If you were to look to your. Left on the southern wall, if I got that right, was a golden lampstand. And this golden lampstand would stand and this has the seven parts that come.

[01:40:58] Out with the lamp oil on each one of them. I’m having a hard time what do. They call that, the Jewish name for that other than golden lampstand. But you see it today when they. Do Hanukah a lot.

[01:41:14] But this golden lampstand would stand there and it’s what? Thank you. It lit up. What was in this holy place. That was the light that they have.

[01:41:26] It’s the picture of as we walk. Daily in the light of his Word. The oil that runs through all the different veins of to feed the lamps. The Holy Spirit is the oil that gives us light to the Word of God, that gives us light to the things that God wants. It as we walk in his light.

[01:41:49] In the light of His Word. This is the golden lampstand.

[01:41:54] It talks about that in Revelation Four five. And out of the throne proceeded lightnings and thunderings and voices, and there were seven lamps of fire burning before the. Throne, before the Holy of Holies, which. Were the seven spirits of God. So we sort of see a picture.

[01:42:11] Of that lampstand, I believe, there in heaven. Now, if you were to turn to your right, to the northern wall, you’d. See a table of showbread. This table of showbread is where the priest would eat daily, and they would get there’s a place of fellowship. So we’re saved out of the Brazen altar.

[01:42:33] We’re cleansed by his word. We walk in the light of His Word. We have fellowship at the table of showbread with one another, and we make our intercession, our prayers at the altar of incense. This is all the Christian walk as. We walk our daily lives through the work of Christ on the cross.

[01:42:54] There we go. There’s the table. Show bread. Just a table that they would put. Bread on and have fellowship in there.

[01:43:02] Jesus says, pointing this to Jesus in John 649 through 51, I am the bread of life. Your Father did eat manna in the. Wilderness and are dead. This is the bread which cutth down. From heaven that a man may eat.

[01:43:20] Thereof and not die. I am the living bread which came down from heaven. If any man eateth this bread, he shall live forever. And the bread that I will give. Is my flesh, which I will give.

[01:43:35] For the life of the world. Jesus gave Himself this living bread. He is the bread of life. In Him, we have eternal life. And then through that, we have fellowship with one another.

[01:43:51] We have fellowship through the Father, through the broken body of our Savior on the cross. So then that’s the holy place. Then if you were to walk forward. And you could go through the veil. Well, we can nowadays, because we know it’s rent, right?

[01:44:09] We know it’s torn from top to bottom. We have direct access into the Holy of Holies, or the very throne of God. This is where the Ark of the Covenant was. And on top of it was a lid. I call it a lid, but it was called the Mercy Seat.

[01:44:25] And these two cherubims overshadowed with their wings forward, protecting the holiness of God. There you go. Thank you. They would overshadow it, protecting the holiness of God. And in between these two wings on.

[01:44:39] This lid is where the high priest would put the blood sacrifice. This is where it was. And under this lid now, in there, you had the Ten Commandments. You had Aaron’s Rod that butted, and you had the bowl of manna. The Ten Commandments was God’s law.

[01:44:56] How perfect, how holy is his requirement for holiness. Aaron’s Rod that butted to remind them that he had brought them once and for all out of the bondage of Egypt. Remember as he threw it down and it turned into a steak and it butted and all that stuff, it was a constant reminder to all the people there to remember what God had done for them. And then in provision of the manna, the bowl of manna, or that God provided for them in the wilderness as they wandered through the wilderness.

[01:45:38] And in the ark of the Covenant, we see. And the temple of God was opened. In heaven, and there was seen in. The temple the ark of His Testament. And there are lightnings and voices and thunders and earthquakes of great hail.

[01:45:56] Hebrews 911 through I’ll get to your question. Just a minute, nori I just want. To keep my thought on this, and then I’ll quit. But Christ become a high priest of. A good things to come by a.

[01:46:10] Greater and more perfect tabernacle, not made with hands, that is to say, not of this building, neither by the blood of goats and calves, but by his own blood. He entered once into the holy place, having obtained eternal redemption for us. For if the blood of bulls and goats and the ashes of a heifer sprinkled the unclean sanctified to the purifying. Of the flesh, how much more shall. The blood of Jesus, the blood of Christ, who through the eternal Spirit, offer himself without spot to God, purge your conscience from dead works that ties into.

[01:46:49] I believe, six Hebrews. Six again. To serve a living God. So let me one more john 2017. Jesus said john 2017 you remember when Mary came up to Jesus and she.

[01:47:10] Saw him in the garden, and when. She realized he said, Mary, and she realized it was Jesus, he went to touch Him and he said, Touch me not. Some may argue this, but after studying. The tabernacle and seeing all that, I. Believe at that point Jesus had not.

[01:47:28] Ascended to the Father to apply his. Blood on the mercy seat in heaven. Because when the high priest once he. Shed the blood of this blood of. Bulls and goats at the Brazen altar, he was not to be defiled in.

[01:47:44] Any way, not to be touched. He was to go straight into the holy of holies with it and apply the blood on the mercy seat. If some was to come up and touch Him, he was considered defiled and. Could not enter in. Jesus told Mary, do not touch me yet.

[01:48:00] But remember, he told Thomas later that day, he says, here, touch me. Put your hands through my side. So from the point where he saw Mary to the time he saw Thomas, I believe he ascended to His Father and applied his perfect blood on the mercy seat in heaven to make an atonement for the sins of the world. Before the throne of God. That’s my belief on it.

[01:48:23] And if you don’t have. The same then that’s he I’ll just say this. I know it happened and it’s complete. And God accepted it. Whichever way it so this is why when Moses was warned to build this tabernacle exactly after the pattern I’ve shown you, because it was the testimony of the real tabernacle or the real setting before the throne of God, which is.

[01:48:55] In heaven, now, there was a question before I go to verse six or something, I pray.

[01:49:15] Okay, all right, we can address that later. I’m right in the middle of this. Study, so thank you for that, but. Let me keep on with my study. Here verse six, and I’ve got about nine minutes.

[01:49:29] I don’t know if I’m going to make it or not, but if not. We’Ll just pick up next week. But as is, Christ has obtained a. Ministry that is as much more excellent than the old as the covenant he mediates is better since it is enacted. On a better promise.

[01:49:54] So Jesus is a better promise, he is a better ministry in that it’s a heavenly ministry, matthew 26 28. Or this is my blood of the. New Testament, which is shed for many for the remissions of sin. For this is my blood that is. Of a New Testament.

[01:50:15] We’re talking about a better covenant, a better way, a better promise. John 640 and this is the will. Of him that sent me, that everyone which seeth the Son and believeth on. Him may have every lasting life, and. I will raise him up in the last day.

[01:50:35] So this is a new covenant, a better way, the need for a better covenant. Because the old covenant was weak and it could not do what God demanded, it was done by sinful man, but what Jesus did in fulfilling that and he was not sinful, he did perfectly and was accepted by the Father. For if verse seven for if that. First covenant had been flawless, there would. Have been no occasion to look for a second.

[01:51:07] If the law, if the tabernacle and all that sacrificial system could make someone. Perfect, then there was no reason for Jesus to come. Jesus died in vain. The law had its faults because it was done by sinful men that could not keep it. For he God finds fault with them when he says, behold, the days are.

[01:51:35] Coming, declare the Lord, when I will. Establish a new covenant with the house. Of Israel and with the house of Judah. Not like the covenant I made with their fathers on the day when I took them by the hand to bring them out of the land of Egypt. Not by that law, not by the Ten Commandments, but I’m a new covenant, for they did not continue in my covenant, and so I showed no concern.

[01:52:00] For them, declares the Lord. He tells of a new covenant, how. It’S superior to the old covenant, for. This is the covenant that I will make with the house of Israel after. Those days, declares the Lord, and then.

[01:52:15] Not just to them. Romans 1127 for this is my covenant. To them when I shall take their sins away, that he’s taken our sins away. This is the new covenant through Jesus Christ.

[01:52:33] I hate to rush through this if there’s some meat in here that I. Don’T want to miss, but he’s quoting. Jeremiah 31 31 through 34. In Ezekiel, there’s many prophecies of the new covenant. It’s I will put my laws in their minds and write them on their hearts, and I will be their God, and they shall be my people.

[01:52:54] They shall not teach each one his neighbor and each one his brothers, saying. Know the Lord, for they shall know me. This is the Holy Spirit within us. Writing these laws on our hearts, to. Speak to our hearts, to get us to do the things that God wants us to do and to live the way that God wants us no longer by written laws.

[01:53:18] For I will have mercy toward their iniquities. Now, you didn’t hear that in the. Old Testament, too much. Whenever they sinned, God didn’t show much mercy. But because of the blood of Jesus, he says, I will remember their sins no more.

[01:53:34] See, we’re transitioning here from earthly to a heavenly. God is not wanting an external expression of your faith, but more of an internal that produces an external expression of your faith, an internal covenant that he. Gives us, not what we can do. But what God does through us. So in verse 13 and speaking of.

[01:54:03] The new covenant, he makes the first one obsolete. You hear that? The first one obsolete. And what has become obsolete and growing. Old is ready to vanish away because.

[01:54:18] Of the superiority of Jesus Christ, our high priest. And this new covenant that God has established with all men, that through only through the blood of Jesus Christ that you can come before Him to be found righteous in Him. God has made a new covenant with mankind of how salvation.

[01:54:43] Takes place in the life of the believer. I got about four minutes. Anybody’s got any comments? JD, you got any comments on this?

[01:54:56] Yeah, this is the most meaty part of Hebrews eight through eight through ten. And like you said, it’s not something you can really rush through because there’s so much to unpack, but just on the mere fact and just to back up a little bit, when you were speaking about the shadow and the law was a shadow. Now, the best way to the Greek word for shadow is skia. And we know when the sun is at the perfect height in the afternoon and you stand out in an open field that costs a shadow of yourself. You see your silhouette on the ground, so you can see your outline and your features pretty much identically, but you can’t see the internal, you can’t see your face.

[01:55:52] It’s not like looking into a mirror. You can see everything there is to see. If you put your hand up, you can see your hand. If you’ve got long hair and it’s waving in the wind, you can see this too. And ultimately, when we look at this outline, like I say, the Greek is skier.

[01:56:12] It’s an image caused by an object that is representing the form of that object. So, again, if we look at the deeper meaning and understanding of what it means, why the law was a shadow and why the tabernacle had to be built to such precision, was that what would come after that would reveal how perfect God is, how full God is, how complete God is. And again, Kenny’s already said this. No one walks away from the faith. No one comes to the knowledge of the truth.

[01:56:49] And this is why I say when people and they get upset and we’ve all witnessed this, when you say you were never saved, and they’re like, I was saved. I prayed in tongues and I did all these things, and you’re like, ultimately, that’s not what it’s about. That’s not what coming to the knowledge of the truth is about. Gifts are secondary. The truth is that we preach Christ crucified.

[01:57:15] And why do we preach Christ crucified? Why are we not going around preaching the law and explaining to you? And although it’s awesome to do these studies where we can see the fullness of the tabernacle and we can see all these things broken down for us, and it’s good for learning, but ultimately, it’s got absolutely nothing to do with saving faith. It’s got absolutely nothing to do with salvation. And this is the author of Hebrews, again and again, is putting the emphasis on why you can’t go back to former.

[01:57:52] And as we’ve seen, the prophet Jeremiah comes out and he says, behold those days it will come where I will make a new covenant with the house of Israel and the house of Judah. We see that Jesus Christ in his fullness when revealed to mankind anyone who leans on anything other than that. Again, when Jesus Christ said, I am the way, I am the truth, I am the life, he gave a perfect example of what the tabernacle is. And literally, if we look at it in its fullest, the when you entered in, that was the way, then you went into the truth, and then you went into the holy of Holies, which was the life. So we see all three broken down there.

[01:58:38] Jesus didn’t speak the way he spoke to confuse anyone, those and this is where cultural context is so important. Those who understood the law, understood Moses, understood all these things, all these ordinances and decrees knew exactly what Jesus was saying. And this is why, again, they understood completely in the fullness. When Jesus Christ proclaimed the words eloi eloi lema sebachtani, my God, my God, why have you forsaken me? They knew right there and then, despite the signs around them, the clouds going dark and the earth shaking and the veil being torn, they knew exactly what they had done.

[01:59:25] And this is why we today again, we can go to Romans one even, where Paul says, god has revealed himself invisible and invisible things. Everybody knows God. Everybody knows that God is real. They just choose to suppress the truth or hide the truth. And this is confirming a conversation we see with Jesus and Nicodemus in John chapter three, where he says, those who have not stepped out into the light, they stand condemned already.

[01:59:57] And this confirms what Paul says to us in Romans chapter three and four and five, and when he goes into explaining what sin is and why sin affects us and separates us from God. So once we’ve come to the fullness of the understanding of what Jesus Christ did from start to finish and why everything they if they were truly seeking to serve God. And this is a part that a lot of people don’t mention, but throughout Christ’s earthly ministry, what was upsetting the Pharisees more than anything else was members of the Pharisees that were following Jesus. They were getting upset because people were walking away from following the law. And they followed this guy.

[02:00:47] And to this day, the Jews still maintain, they still maintain that Jesus Christ was a fraud because it takes away from everything they could do, everything they are doing all the holy days. This is what they became obsessed about. They became obsessed with their culture, with their righteous living, if I can put it that way. And Christ said, you’ve missed the point. You’ve completely missed the point.

[02:01:16] That was never the point of the law. That was never why the law was implemented in the first place. It was all to point you to me. And they missed it because they were so bound on being righteous and playing I’ve kept the law better than you’ve kept the law. And we see that today, even in Christian denominations.

[02:01:42] We see this legalistic, self righteous attitude of, I’m less of a sinner than you are. But when we realize that we’re all sinners and we all are in desperate need of God’s mercy daily, then humility kicks in and we see, okay, this is why the crucifixion is so important. This is why the blood of Jesus is so important. This is why he took on the full wrath of God. Because ultimately, all sin, whether it’s a white lie or a lie that cripples nations, it’s still a sin against a thrice holy God.

[02:02:21] And this is ultimately as you go through. And I’m glad that Kenny hasn’t rushed through chapter eight, because you can spend. 2 hours discussing Hebrews chapter eight, and. Then even more so as you dive into chapter nine. And I would say, yes, Kira, I would say people have made the law an idol.

[02:02:45] Especially when we look at the Torah, observing community like, yes, we’ve got Jesus but the law this, the law that. No, it’s the other way around, it’s the law this, the law that. But now we have Christ, but now we have the finished sacrifice, now we have the perfect blood of Jesus. So a lot of people have made the law an mean. And Paul even dives into that in Romans chapter six, where he know the law is good, the law is pure, the law is holy, it’s God’s law.

[02:03:19] But ultimately the law was put in to point out what sin is. That was the purpose of the law, to show God’s people what sin is. And when you go through the Levitical code, you go through 613 ordinances. A lot of those ordinances were put in place so that they would be separated from the people around them, so that they would be different from the people around them. And today, where we are, the Christian is different from the people around them because of the indwelling of the Holy Spirit, because of our belief in the Gospel, because of our belief in the finished work of Christ.

[02:03:56] Jesus has got absolutely nothing to do with what we do or don’t do, but what we do believe and don’t believe. And this is why we come back to the we stand on the premise of you either have all of God’s word or none of God’s words. No true believer will tell you that we’ll speak ill of God’s law. We don’t look at the law and go, oh well, it’s rubbish. And we just look at this and now grace.

[02:04:27] And that’s not the right attitude. That’s not how we approach the scripture. We look at the law of God, and the law of God is supposed to point out how flawed you are as a human being and point to the grace that we have received from Jesus Christ. That’s what the law brings out in us. So you can see like, wow, God’s mercies truly know no bounds.

[02:04:54] God’s mercies truly extend much further than any human eye can. And this is why we approach people with love and the message of the. Gospel, because we’re forever going to try. And justify ourselves by our own goodness, rather than submit to the fact that there is no one good, no not one. All have fallen short of the glory of God.

[02:05:18] The only reason we can read that text and comprehend that text is when we have come to the terms that this is the only way we are saved by believing that Jesus Christ paid it all and took it all. The moment we start adding to that or removing from that, we have erred from the truth and we have abandoned the faith in a sense that we are now relying on something other than the finished work of Jesus Christ.

[02:05:52] Amen. Thank you, JD.

[02:05:57] Let me say this about the law and the sacrificial. A lot of people will tell you. That that’s how they were saved in the Old Testament. No, it was not that sacrificial system and all that. All that was was a constant daily.

[02:06:13] Reminder of their sin and that their. Need for a savior who would once. Die for their sin. They were saved by believing God and. Putting their faith in, just like Abraham, he believed God and it was counted.

[02:06:32] To him for righteousness before the law. So the Old Testament were saved much like we were. And I know there’s a group I’d rather make fun of us and say, oh, they look to Christ, we look back to Christ and they make fun of that statement. But that is exactly what it was about. All the tabernacle and all that stuff.

[02:06:52] Pointed to Christ and when they did. It, it reminded them of their sinfulness and their need for a savior every day. And when Jesus came and died and fulfilled that, now we look back to. That cross and say, he did that. For me on the cross, and I am free in Him, I rest in Him.

[02:07:14] I don’t have to do all those dead works anymore. Amen. I don’t it one more thing. It just sort of been eating at. Me this I keep hearing that when.

[02:07:27] Jesus came, he was telling the Jews. And stuff at that time that he. Was promising them an earthly kingdom and that’s what he came for. And then it’s like Jesus changed his mind so well, they didn’t accept me, so now I’m going to have to go to the cross. That was absolutely not true.

[02:07:45] Jesus knew exactly why he was coming. He came to die for the sins of the world, never to offer an earthly kingdom. So don’t let anybody mislead you on that. The message of the Gospel has been the same from Genesis to Revelation. It never.

[02:08:07] Loud. And just to put emphasis for you, my sister Kira, the law in itself is not an idol. But here’s the difference. We see the Ten Commandments and here’s the thing. What I say to people out of the Ten Commandments, we see every single one of them mentioned in the New Testament apart from the Sabath day.

[02:08:31] That’s because Christ has become our Sabbath. And that’s what we see in the book of Hebrews as well as we get through it, that Christ is our rest, he is our Sabbath. But the reason that the Ten Commandments are brought up, a lot of people will. And this is where hypergrace is dangerous, because they’ll say to you, the Ten Commandments are irrelevant. Why does Paul then go to in Ephesians six, he says he brings up the commandments of children, obeying their parents so that they may have a long life and things will go well with them and they will be able to live long in the land and things will go well with them.

[02:09:04] And then he goes on to say, this is the first commandment with the promise. He brings it up again because it’s still very much relevant. So here’s the sense the law can become an idol. If I look at Thou shalt not Kill as a fact of I’m not going to kill so that I can be in right standing with God, I may have already heard because I’m not not killing people because I want to be in right standing with God. I’m not not killing people because I love Jesus Christ.

[02:09:34] And because I love Jesus Christ, I love other and this is the essence and the truest form of having an understanding of the law being written on our hearts, which again, I know we’re going to get into that as we progress through the study. But the reality of God’s law, the reality of God’s law is it’s always been by grace. David was saved by grace, samson was saved by grace, jonah was saved by grace, moses was saved by grace, all of them were saved by grace. No one was saved according to the deeds that they did. And ultimately, this is what we see with people out there.

[02:10:23] And I know Kenny’s the same as me, we see these videos, we don’t even bother commenting on these videos because they’re self deceived. They’re not reading God’s word to understand God. They’re using God’s word as a weapon to break others down. And this is the difference between a minister of Christ, as we see in the apostle Paul, and what does he say? In one Corinthians eleven, there are those who preach Christ out of contention, supposed to add affliction to my bonds, but Christ is being preached nonetheless.

[02:10:54] So this is why we can sit back and go, you’re still mentioning the name of Jesus. And anyone who truly believes the Gospel and is truly seeking Jesus will be regenerated by the Holy Spirit and they. Will grow in their faith. Because I trust the Bible. I trust what God says in his word.

[02:11:14] I don’t trust what people say and how people say. And these same people who stand with their presuppositions of there’s a different meaning between testament and covenant and there’s multiple Gospels. And whatever the case may be, those same people will say, you can’t trust men, you can’t trust the writings, you can’t trust church history, but I can trust you. How does that work? That within itself is a contradiction and it’s hypocritical because we’ve got these writings, we’ve got the instruction, we’ve got the commentaries, we’ve got the Greek, we’ve got the Hebrew.

[02:11:53] It’s not just a coincidence that God has preserved His Word, but he has preserved His Word in absolutely every single language that is being spoken on earth today. That’s how awesome God is. So if you’re going to tripped up with translations, you’re going to get tripped up with the law, you’re going to tripped up with that was to them and this is to those. No, that’s not how we look at it. Yes, there were certain instances where Jesus Christ was speaking directly to a sect of pharisees and we can’t just go grip that and apply it to anyone else we want to rebuke.

[02:12:31] Because, for example, I can’t run around in places and start calling everybody broods of vipers because John the Baptist once used that.

[02:12:44] There’s more to it. There’s more to it. And ultimately what happens is, as Kenny already said, and I’ll say it again, we sin abounded, grace abounded even more. We trust that Jesus Christ has chosen those who are able to minister his word from a place of humility. And anyone who is preaching Christ from a place other than humility and love shouldn’t be preaching Christ at all.

[02:13:14] And I’ll die on that.

[02:13:21] Amen, brother. But that was awesome. I’m looking forward to next week already. It’s been an absolute blessing. And Kenny, thank you so much for the detail you bring, especially for those who are eager to learn.

[02:13:38] I see at one point we had 30 people or 32 people in the Chat, which is a blessing. And the way you’ve unpacked it for us, again, going into the detail of every single verse, that’s what we are called to do. So bless you, brother, for taking the time to do this for all of us and be here and edify us all. Because truly, when Kenny first said to me, look, he wants to do a study on Hebrews, I was like, man, this is just from God. Because, and I’ll say it again, probably every week as we go through this, this is probably one of the most ignored books and it destroys every false doctrine that is out there.

[02:14:25] Every false doctrine that is out there is destroyed by the Book of Hebrews, completely dismantled and torn apart. So absolutely grateful for you, my brother, Papa Bear. It was absolute blessing and God bless you. I hope you guys have a fantastic evening and well, it’s now 416 in the morning and yeah, I see. I’ve got a question about secular music.

[02:14:57] What’s your question about secular music? Should you listen to secular music? I get that all the time. At the end of the day, I’ve explained this to people again and again. What does it do to your spirit?

[02:15:14] What does it do to your spirit? Does it get you closer to God? Or does it push you further away from God? And ultimately, I’ll still put know, as Ashley will tell you, I’ll put on the Backstreet Boys every now and again just to reminisce on my childhood days. But if it’s not going to bring you closer to God, then it’s generally, like I say, if you’re listening to vulgar music, I would definitely not do that.

[02:15:50] But there are secular songs that are not, if I can put it this way, inherently evil.

[02:15:59] Like a love song or whatever the case may be. But there are lyrics today in modern day artists where their lyrics are just vulgar, profanities. And again, we are told not to let corrupt speech leave our mouths. We are told not to. We are you know, our words are to be seasoned with grace and with salt.

[02:16:20] So if the lyrics you are singing to whatever artist it is you’re listening to defame women talk about killing and murder and sex and drugs, then, yeah, I wouldn’t listen to it because ultimately it doesn’t glorify God, nor does it do anything for your edification and it doesn’t build you up. So I still listen to metal music, but all the metal I listen to is Christian. It’s all Christian artists. And even though they scream and the lyrics that they are screaming are glorifying God, not everybody agrees with it and not everybody likes it. Now, I get that each to their own, but whatever we do, we should be doing for the glory of God.

[02:17:06] So we always come back to Matthew 633. Seek ye first the kingdom of God and his righteousness, and the rest will be added. So that’s ultimately the first thing we look at is.

[02:17:21] Okay, I cut out the demonic music about bad stuff and I just listen to Kpop. But I set a limit to it. I don’t listen to it in the morning and I don’t listen to it past 06:00. So I’m mostly trying to indulge music about God and I was wondering if that was okay.

[02:17:50] You take that one, Kenny, go ahead. I was just going to say, I was taught as a young boy from. My childhood pastor, if you have to ask is it okay? Just like we talked about tonight, I will write my laws on their hearts. If you are questioning anything you’re doing, it may just be the Holy Spirit convicting you or telling you he don’t.

[02:18:16] Want you doing that. It could be anything. So anything you question like that rather than come to me or JD, I mean, we’d be glad to help in. Any way we could, but ultimately I can’t tell you what’s okay for me. Is okay for you, or vice versa.

[02:18:36] You. Let the Holy Spirit guide you. And so if the Holy Spirit is impressing upon you, should I be doing this? Then I would suggest you probably need. To be in prayer and searching the Scripture to see what God says about obviously, if it’s clear in scripture, then.

[02:18:52] There is no gray area there. But there are some areas that people ask. And if you ask, then maybe the. Holy Spirit is trying to lead you in a different direction.

[02:19:06] It was because I feel on TikTok a lot and there’s like people saying, oh, don’t listen. It’s like a music, oh, you can listen and just cut off certain music or it was just going back and forth and it was confusing me. So I was just like questioning it. Yeah. And again, Kat and I addressed this like months ago.

[02:19:28] Also on the know, if you’ve got a question, you get to a point. If you focused on Jesus Christ, you get to a point where you no longer have to ask the question, is this a sin? As Kenny just said, your convictions come from the Holy Spirit. And you should listen to the Holy Spirit before you listen to the opinions of others because this is ultimately what happens. You can keep going around to every single Christian until you find a Christian who says to you, it’s absolutely fine to listen to all forms of secular music.

[02:20:01] This is where are we seeking our teachers that will give us the message that we want to hear or do we want the truth? And as Kenny has given you the advice, I 100% agree with my brother there that’s some Godly wisdom. If you’re convicted about something and Paul dives into this. If we’ve got brothers and sisters who don’t want to eat meat, then we don’t eat meat in front of them because we don’t want to create stumbling blocks. It’s not because eating meat is a sin, but it’s because they’ve got their personal convictions over eating certain meats.

[02:20:33] And if their faith is in Christ alone and they believe that they are saved by the blood of Jesus Christ, they just want to refrain from eating bacon. Then we don’t force them to eat bacon because we are allowed to eat bacon. The same principle.

[02:20:50] Yeah, exactly. All things are permissible, but not all things are beneficial. So again, listen to your personal convictions. If the Holy Spirit is saying, why are you listening to so much music? Generally?

[02:21:03] That’s a good call to go. Okay, instead of listening to this, I should be spending those 2 hours in the word or changing up the scene. With that being said, I’ve got a bounce, I’ve got an early morning, so I’m going to try and get another hour’s sleep in before my son wakes up. And I’ve got at church this morning. So I love you all.

[02:21:24] God bless you all. Kenny, thanks again, my brother. I love you. I will see you guys in the week. Thank you, JD.

[02:21:30] Get some rest. Thank you, Kenny. I have one more question. How do I know if a church is true? Like how do I know it’s not deceiving me or twisting verses?

[02:21:46] Well, once again, that’s why it’s important for us to know the study to show thyself approved unto God. A workman needeth not to be ashamed, rightly. Dividing the word of truth. So one, you get as good a foundation in scripture as you can and. Then let the Holy Spirit lead you.

[02:22:05] To a you know, if you go to a church again and the preacher is standing up there saying some things. That you just don’t feel right, that’s. In your spirit, it may. Be the Holy Spirit speaking to you, telling you, hey, you need to look. Into this, or you need to take.

[02:22:23] Caution here in what’s being said.

[02:22:28] That’s a thing that finding a church. Is something that you just don’t go to just because your friends are going or just because I believe a church that you go to as a calling from God. He says he places the members in. The body as it pleases him, and. I think I apply that to the church.

[02:22:48] He has a church for you, and. If you’re asking Him to take you to the church, he’ll lead you there into a church that teaches sound doctrine. So just a little bit a short answer on that, I guess, but it’s. Important that we know the Scriptures and we’re sensitive to the leadership of the Holy Spirit. Yeah, that last baptism, they told me that one of my churches were false because they wanted me to be the church wanted me to be re baptized because I wasn’t baptized in the name of Jesus, and I was only baptized in the name of the Father, Son, and Holy Spirit.

[02:23:33] Well, I don’t that’s probably one of. The areas that people want to argue over. He says, baptizing in the name of the Father, Son, and the Holy Spirit.

[02:23:52] In the name of Jesus. He represents the know. That would be difficult to me. The baptism doesn’t save you. You understand that.

[02:24:03] It’s just an outward expression of that. You are saved, that you’ve already accepted Jesus as your personal savior. It’s just a public profession of your faith. As you identify with Christ in his death, burial, and resurrection, you stand there in the water. You’re buried with Him in baptism and raised to walk in newness of life, his resurrection.

[02:24:27] So it’s just symbolic of what you have already believed in. It’s a public announcement of I am a Christian, I’m trusting Jesus as my personal savior. So baptism doesn’t save you. And that may just be a little. Play on words, but there was a.

[02:24:45] Question last week about did Timothy write Hebrews? And I meant to remember it. Some speculate he does and even some Bible translations will say at the end of Hebrews written by Timothy. I don’t think so, just because the. Last chapter pretty much says that something.

[02:25:06] About Timothy coming, and I don’t know why that would be in there if Timothy wrote it. So I lean more toward Paul or Apollos or maybe Paul and Luke. I think it was probably whoever did. It was very close to Paul if. Paul didn’t do it himself.

[02:25:26] But like I said, the main point. Of it is that God is the author, and man pinned it and these. Great truths in the book of Hebrews. So I don’t get too much in the argument over who wrote it. Too much other than what the message?

[02:25:44] Kenny, can I add something right quick? Yes, sir. I think it is crucial when people are looking for a church is getting a hold of the Holy Spirit in their prayer life. And if they need to lean on a little bit of fasting going forward and just really digging down and just getting a hold of the Holy Spirit and having the Holy Spirit directing them to that place. Because your local church is not like a book club that you’re getting into, it’s your spiritual greenhouse that you’re serving into and growing into and serving your community in.

[02:26:32] And it’s so vitally important that you are in the right one that you’re serving in and you’re growing in and that you’re hearing the right message in the scriptures, scripture wise and this hold down and this fully immerse yourself and how to get that answer from God on where you should be going, very vitally important, right? Maybe to answer some dead giveaway. And I moved to, I’m not even. Going to say the particular place, but. An area where I had to look.

[02:27:18] For a new church a few years back. And for two years I looked for. A church and one of them that. I went to, I really liked and everything seemed right. But I got to noticing the blood.

[02:27:31] Of Jesus was never mentioned. They didn’t lift up the name of Jesus ever. And I thought, wow, it sounds so good. But Jesus is not being magnified in first. John tells us if they don’t confess Jesus, if Jesus is not the center.

[02:27:49] Of what’s going on there, that may. Be a church you might need to run from. So that’s one of my dead giveaways. With that one is that for six. Weeks I never heard the pastor mention.

[02:28:01] The blood of.

[02:28:05] Melchizedek. Did Melchizedek have parents? I tend to think he did because. All of us were born from somebody except for Jesus. When it says that Melchizedek had no.

[02:28:21] Father, no mother, I think that what. That’S referring to is he had no. Jewish record or genealogy that they knew of about him. Doesn’t mean that he just all of a sudden appeared on the scene. Now, some people think that it is.

[02:28:39] A Christophany or appearance of Christ in the Old Testament. And if you believe that or look. At that way, then I’d say, well. No, he probably didn’t have father or mother, but I tend to believe that. He was more of a real man.

[02:28:54] With a real mother and father. They just didn’t have any record of. It in the Jewish lineage or in. The Levitical law or the priesthood. I hope that answers your question.

[02:29:09] What are the red flags in a false church?

[02:29:16] What are the red flags in a false church? Yeah. Well, like I said, do they magnify Jesus? Do they glorify god would be number one. Do they teach anything other than you’re saved by grace through faith?

[02:29:34] It’s not of works, lest any man should boast. Those would be the first and foremost. Now, many churches have different things the. House positions, the secondary issues that they believe. But you’ve got to have the foundational truth, right, about who Jesus is and.

[02:29:52] What he did for us on the cross.

[02:29:57] All right, I got some more questions here. Good night, Jeffrey. Thank you, sir, for being here tonight. All right.

[02:30:10] How did Noah live 637 years? Well, 673 years, that’s a good question. I tend to believe before the flood and even after that, that man lived. Longer because, one, the effects of sin. Weren’T as prevalent, even though there was sin.

[02:30:38] And after the flood, when that.

[02:30:44] Fermented. The rain that came down, the sun. And its rays, all that. This is just a theory of mine. I’m not going to say it’s biblical, but had more effects on man and didn’t live as long.

[02:30:59] Some people how did methuselah live 900 and something years? I believe they lived those actual years 365 days of every year. But how they did that, I think. Was probably more because of the effects of sin. After the flood, man didn’t live as.

[02:31:19] Long because of the the effects of. The heat and the sun on man, shortened his days. That’s just my theory. I can’t really tell you.

[02:31:37] So I was actually asked that question. In our Bible school a couple weeks ago by the eight year old little. Boy, and I was blown away that he would ask, but I didn’t have. A real good answer for him either, other than the Bible said it, and I believe it. Now, there are some people that think that when Noah was talking or when.

[02:31:59] God was talking to Noah, he said, the days will be 120 years. And he was saying, okay, man is not going to live over 120 years anymore. Well, that’s not true, because Noah lived longer than that and some of his descendants after that. What God was telling Noah was, it’s going to be 120 years before the. Flood, is the way I see that.

[02:32:23] Was there another question? I meant because of Hebrews two three.

[02:32:34] Right? Yeah. There’s a lot of similarities in Hebrews. Of Paul, but the people who way. Smarter on a higher pay scale than.

[02:32:45] I am don’t think it was Paul. Just because of the form. It’s not typical of Paul’s writings, but then some say, well, Paul said it. And Luke wrote it down, and Luke was very fluent in Greek and more versed in writing than Paul was. And so some argue that.

[02:33:04] But when I say Apollos, if, you. Know, look up Apollos and Acts. He was a very well speaker and. Very well educated, and he worked very closely to Paul. So could have been him, could have.

[02:33:20] Been Paul, could have been Luke, could have been Timothy. I don’t know, and I don’t know. That we will know till we get to heaven. A lot of people have argued that.

[02:33:38] Yep. That’s one of the questions. There’s a lot of questions I want. To ask when I get to heaven, and that’s probably going to be one of them. I’m going to ask Noah why he.

[02:33:48] Didn’T get rid of them two mosquitoes. When he had the chance.

[02:34:04] Wow, what a great study. Thank y’all for hanging out and being here with us tonight. I hope you’re enjoying it and it’s been very helpful. Had a good group tonight. I am humbled with that.

[02:34:16] Glad JD. Can join us.

[02:34:26] And dinosaurs. What about dinosaurs?

[02:34:33] I believe that they were on Earth.

[02:34:37] You see in Job, where God is talking about the Leviathan and the Behemoth and the way he describes them is. Very much what we think today, what dinosaurs look like. The strength is in his sinews and. His tail and all those things were probably dinosaurs. And we know Job was written probably.

[02:34:59] About the time before or during the time of Abraham, before the flood. And many scientists believe that the dinosaurs. Died out after the flood because there was not enough vegetation to eat.

[02:35:17] A lot of Christian scientists believe that. Most dinosaurs were not carnivores, they were plant eaters because of the fossils of. Their teeth are still sharp. And that’s a whole nother subject, I guess. Hey, I was trying to unmute there while you were talking about sorry to go back on the subject, but if you look at the ages in the Old Testament, when you go through the genealogy of it and it tells you all their ages when they passed away.

[02:35:50] If you watch from methuselah on it’s slowly and progressively, the number gets smaller and smaller. Right. So it kind of bears proof to just over the amount of time that has gone by, we’ve slowly gotten shorter and shorter lifespans.

[02:36:09] Like, methuselah was, what, 960? And then his kid was, like, 935, and then his kid was like, eight something, and then it just keeps going smaller and smaller as they go, right? Yeah. So I think it was just progression of time. And like you say, it could have been diet, could have been the way we were living, it could have been many factors that slowly caused the ages to just decrease over the years.

[02:36:38] Right. Yeah. Bible doesn’t really say for sure, but. That’S sort of what I think, too.

[02:36:56] Great study, though, Kenny. I’m going to go ahead and jump off here for the night and get these kids set up. All right, sir. Well, thank you for joining us, being here and for your input. Thank you.

[02:37:07] Very problem. No problem. Good to be here. God bless, guys. God bless.

[02:37:13] Good night, Melissa. And when we have a question, why. Did it stop here? Why are there still apes?

[02:37:28] Right? Yeah. If we all evolved from apes, there still wouldn’t be apes today. I think that’s what you’re saying.

[02:37:42] We don’t do evolution.

[02:37:48] Okay, thank you. All right, anybody else got any? If I missed anything, thank you all. Again for being here. I hope it’s been helpful.

[02:37:57] And next week we’ll do nine and. Maybe get into ten. As Daisy says, the stakes are getting bigger and bigger. Let’s just say that he is throwing a lot of meat out now. He’s wanting them to move on to maturity.

[02:38:16] And Ken is going to be a. Very good chapter to go through, and I don’t want to rush either one of those.

[02:38:27] So I think I forgot to close. This out in prayer, so I’ll just do that real quick. If you got more questions, I’ll stay. And if you want to chat, that’s fine. The Father just thank you for tonight.

[02:38:43] For all that’s come. We thank you for the Holy Spirit. It leads us in all truth, and we just pray for each one of our brothers and sisters tonight, Lord, that you just reveal your truth to them or just let them see Jesus. Father, we just thank you for this night. We have together the time of fellowship.

[02:38:59] Pray that you just bless us in all that we do and lead us. In your perfect will. In Jesus name I pray. Amen.

[02:39:12] Any other questions or y’all want to chat? This is your time. I’ll stay with you as long as you need me to.

[02:39:22] Well, I got to get up and. Go to do church in the morning. But that’s all right as long as you get it.

[02:39:37] Feel a bit sad now, what are we sad about?

[02:39:56] That’s right. Asking is how we learn.

[02:40:27] Yeah.

[02:40:30] Evolution is a man made theory to try to explain God of something he doesn’t understand. When the scripture is very clear that. God created all things, and that’s a. Big debate, and you could go on. And on and on, but two little.

[02:40:49] Atoms collided and made a big boom. Well, who made the atoms? Where’d they come from? You could keep there’s so many holes. In evolution, but in creation, there are no holes.

[02:41:05] If we believe what God’s word says. About he created all things.

[02:41:18] Yeah, I sort of hate to see it in too. I enjoy these times with you and. Talking with you all over the place.

[02:41:33] Usually you all real quiet, don’t have nothing to say.

[02:41:42] Again, these are recorded if you go. In the library and depository under my name. All these studies are there lessons 1234. I think this is five, or maybe this is four, but they’re all there on audio. You can listen to them, you can’t store them on discord.

[02:42:07] So it’ll take you to a link. That is actually my church. We just stored it on our church server just for the only purpose is. Because that’s the only place we had. Somewhere to store it.

[02:42:19] So don’t be afraid to go to the link. It’s just only place we had to store it.

[02:42:35] But it’s very important that you understand Hebrews in the entirety of the book. Of its context, that Jesus is superior and he is enough. And that’s what the whole book of Hebrews is about. And the writer just lays that out. From chapter one and builds and keeps.

[02:42:55] Building and builds on that throughout the rest of the book.

[02:43:03] Thank you for being here with Cubriant. Am I saying that right? Good night.

[02:43:16] Jesus is, Lord. He absolutely is. If there’s nothing else and nobody has. Any discussion, I think I’m going to wind down here and get my thoughts. Together and get ready for tomorrow.

[02:43:31] Got a busy day tomorrow.

[02:43:35] Thank you all for being here and.


[00:00:00] All right, I got about four minutes. After, so we’re just going to go. Ahead and some more will come in and that’ll be fine. Just remember, we’ve got these recorded in the depository. We got that first four lessons in.

[00:00:16] There and this will be lesson five. So a couple more lessons, maybe one. Or two more lessons, we ought to. Wrap this book up so we’ll get started and open in prayer. Father, we just thank you for this night.

[00:00:31] We thank you for the privilege to. Come together and to study Your Word. Pray, Father, that you would just open. Our eyes to see and our ears. To hear, to understand the truth of Your Word.

[00:00:43] And just pray that the Holy Spirit would lead and guide us in all. That’S said and done to just give us understanding. We just thank you again for all that’s come and for this time together. In Jesus name I pray. Amen.

[00:00:58] Eating homemade fajitas? Now, that’s not fair.

[00:01:04] All right, I just got back from a barbecue, so I’m pretty happy with. Where I’m at right now. We left off as we’re going through from chapter six to seven, eight, nine. And ten, the writer really gives an. Argument for Christ’s superiority over all the sacrificial system that the Jews experienced for years and years.

[00:01:29] Remember that’s the setting of this is that for years they have been making sacrifices and the law and all these things with the tabernacle and temple worship. And now that Christ has come and. Fulfilled the law, he’s died for the. Sins of the world on the cross. And then his finished work was a shadow.

[00:01:53] All the law and the sacrifices and all that was a shadow of Christ. To come and to die for the. Sins of the world, and he’s fulfilled all that. And now this is where we’re at. And the writer is telling these Hebrews.

[00:02:08] To stop acting like Hebrews. Even though this is what you’ve done. For a long period of time, it’s. No longer needed, it’s no longer effective that Christ has fulfilled all that. And the theme of Hebrews once again is the superiority of Jesus Christ.

[00:02:28] So in chapter seven, he makes the. Comparison of Jesus to Melchizedek and how in his earthly priesthood and how Jesus. Could become our high priest, in that. He did not come from the tribe of Levi, but from the tribe of Judah, like Melchizedek had no beginning, no end, no father, no mother, it says. And that’s basically talking about the genealogies or the history.

[00:02:57] If you look through the genealogies, through the Old Testament, you don’t find anywhere for Melchizedek. Yet Abraham, their father, worshiped him, gave a tithe to him. And. Christ is much like Melchizedek in. That he came from God the Father through the tribe of Judah and is.

[00:03:17] Qualified to be our high priest. So we saw that in chapter seven and chapter eight. The emphasis is now on a better covenant you had the old covenant, the. Old Testament that God made with Israel. And Jesus is a better covenant.

[00:03:32] We see in chapter eight. And in chapter nine tonight we’ll see. As he serves in a better sanctuary. It’s important to understand that what we read tonight, they were very familiar with everything the author was or the writer. The author was God, but the writer was talking about here when he made references to tabernacle worship and the covenants and all this.

[00:03:58] They were very familiar with this type of language. So he’s talking about that Jesus serves in a better sanctuary. We left off in chapter eight, and I just want to go back to verse 13. In speaking of a new covenant, he makes the first one obsolete. And what has become obsolete and is growing old is ready to vanish away.

[00:04:21] We see in Hebrews seven, verses 18. And 19.

[00:04:29] That it says for there. Is verily a disannowing of the commandment. Going before.

[00:04:38] The weaknesses and unprofitableness of it. For the law made nothing perfect, but. The bringing in of a better hope did by the which we draw nigh to God, that better hope is Jesus Christ. And then in Romans eight three, it. Speaks again of how the law was weak in that it was done through the flesh.

[00:05:01] Nothing wrong with the law. God gave the law, ordained the law. But because it was done through the. Flesh by men, it was weak.

[00:05:12] 83 says for what the law could not do, and that it was weak through the flesh. God sending his own Son in likeness of sinful flesh and for sins condemned sin in the flesh. So the law was weak, but God. Sent his Son in the flesh. Remember, we go all the way back to the beginning, or close to the beginning of, I think, chapter three and four, where Jesus became man so he could identify with man in the flesh and died for the sins of the world and condemned sin in his flesh.

[00:05:49] So what the law could not do, Jesus did. So we see the superiority of Jesus. Christ as our high priest there. And God has made a new covenant with his people. So let me get this out of the way.

[00:06:06] So tonight we’ll talk about how he. Was a better priest, he had a. Better covenant, he was better than angels, he was better than Moses, he’s better than the Law. We’ve seen all that throughout all of our studies up to this point. Now he serves in a better sanctuary.

[00:06:26] So the beginning of this, chapter nine. He does a contrast between the earthly. Tabernacle and the heavenly. So we see that then verily the first covenant, verse one of chapter nine. Had also ordinances of divine service and a worldly sanctuary, an earthly sanctuary, for.

[00:06:50] There was a tabernacle made, the first, wherein was the candlesticks and the table. And the showbread, which is called the sanctuary. And after the second veil, the tabernacle, which is called the holiest of all. Which had a golden censor and the. Ark of the Covenant overlaid round about with gold, wherein was the golden pot.

[00:07:14] That had manna and Aaron’s rod that butted, and the tables of the Covenant. So just back up a little bit there to that. We’ll just discuss a little bit of it. This was a worldly or earthly sanctuary. And he’s very familiar and I don’t know, I tried to download some pictures where he see if I can do this one here.

[00:07:46] There we go, boy, and I getting techy here. So this is the tabernacle itself. And as you walk through, if you. See in the bottom left hand corner. There would been the first curtain there, and the first section is called the Holy Place.

[00:08:02] And you see to the left would. Be the golden lampstand that burned with. Oil and had a wick that daily. The high priest would have to or the priest would have to tend to. And fill with oil and trim the.

[00:08:17] Wicks and all those things. And this was the only light in the tabernacle. This is a picture of Christ. Everything about the tabernacle points to Christ. He is the light of the world.

[00:08:29] This was the only light in this area. It was, by the way, I think was 15 x 30. If I remember my dimensions right, the. Whole thing was 15 x 45. But then if you look to the.

[00:08:45] Right, you see the table. It says and then he breaks it. Down in here and the show bread. So the table, which we call the. Table of Showbread, the bread that was.

[00:08:56] On it, that was a place of. Fellowship that the priest would eat of those things and every week would change it out and they would eat this show bread in the place of fellowship. And if you can look at the picture right before, in the middle there, you see another curtain with some symbols on it. They were angels or cherubims embroidered in gold. There was this altar of incense.

[00:09:21] We call it it calls it here the golden sensor, or censors translated there altar. So we have this golden sensor, and. Then through the curtain you see the. Ark of the Covenant. I think I have well, let me.

[00:09:41] Back up before I get to that. In this writing here, it almost seems confusing of what’s going on, because everybody teaches that the three pieces of furniture in the Holy Place is the lampstand, the table showbread, and the altar of incense. But the way this reads, it almost. Sounds like the altar of incense is inside the Holy of Holies. Well, it wasn’t.

[00:10:07] It causes a lot of people to. Question and say, well, this is a. Contradiction of scripture, because if you go back to Exodus 30, where he’s talking. About this, it seems to contradict it. Doesn’T contradict because this altar of incense was a place of prayer.

[00:10:23] This is where the high priest would begin his day. There he would go out to the brazen altar out in the courtyard and get a coal off of the brazen. Altar, and he would bring it in. And burn incense before the Lord. And he would begin his day and end his day with this.

[00:10:42] This was a place of prayer. And you see other references, especially in Revelation, of the sweet smelling the prayers of the saints is a sweet smelling savor in the nostrils of God. And the incense that burns that God had told him to burn there. So they burnt that there. But the only way you enter into.

[00:11:04] The presence of God through prayer is. By the Ark of the Covenant. So they sort of were intertwined together. And I think that’s why the writer writes it this way together here, is you don’t go before God except for. In prayer, and you don’t go to.

[00:11:21] Him in prayer except through the blood of Jesus. So it all sort of tied together. And I believe that’s why the writer wrote it this way.

[00:11:30] We read here let me back up. The altar of incense is actually in. The Holy of Holies, right in front of the curtain, right before the Holy of Holies. The holy place. The holy place is the first section where the Ark of the Covenant is holy of Holies.

[00:11:51] I think I said that wrong. I’m talking too fast. Got too much on my mind, I guess. So we read in Exodus 30. I just want to go back and sort of tie this together for you.

[00:12:02] Exodus 30, verses one through ten. And thou shalt make an altar to. Burn incense upon of shittam wood shalt thou make it. A cubic shall be the length and the breadth and four square. And it shall be and two cubits shall be the height thereof, and the.

[00:12:18] Horns thereof shall be the same. And thou shalt overlay them with pure. Gold and the top thereof, and the. Sides thereof about the horns thereof. And thou shalt make unto it a crown of gold.

[00:12:30] So there’s this little crown around the top of it. I think I’ve got a picture of that I’ll put up there for you. So this was the altar of incense. And you see the horns of it. And it’s made out of a kaya wood.

[00:12:44] Some places in Scripture, say, or Shidam wood, this wood was very withstood rot and worms very well would not decay, would not go, and they overlaid it with gold and they put these horns on it. And in the middle of it there, you see where they burnt the incense. It had two golden rings. Verse four of Exodus 30, that thou. Shalt make under the crown of it by the two corners thereupon upon the.

[00:13:16] Two sides of it shalt thou make it. And thou shalt be for spaces of the staves to bear withal. So these little rings you see on. The four corners, they would put these. Rods through there that were overlaid with gold, and that’s how they carried it.

[00:13:32] Because remember, the tabernacle of Moses was. Mobile as they moved around and wandered through the wilderness. They’d have to wrap it up and do all this ritual to the priesthood. Nobody else was allowed, but the Levitical. Tribe would would wrap all this stuff.

[00:13:54] Up and put these staves through these. Rings, and that’s how they carried it as they traveled. So this is why he’s explaining this here. But I want you to see and. Thou shalt put it before the veil that is by the ark of the testimony.

[00:14:10] So even in that wording, the altar of incense, the veil and the holy of holies and the ark of the testament, almost seems like there’s something that. All goes together before the mercy seat that is over the testimony where I will meet. So this tabernacle means dwelling place. It’s a place where God meets man. In the Old Testament and would dwell.

[00:14:40] With man on the day of atonement. The high priest would take the blood. In there and offer the blood for. The sins of the people. And it says the shekinah glory of God would shine down.

[00:14:52] I think I have another picture of. The ark of the covenant with the cherubims and their wings stretched forward. I just want you to see all this because he talks about this a lot tonight. So the ministry of the just want. To explain verse four, the golden altar.

[00:15:10] Or censor, and the ark, they were separated by a curtain, but they very. Much had a lot to do with each other. So I think that’s why the writer put it this way, because this ministry pertained a lot to the holy of holies was important. And it’s a picture of us, a. Picture of prayer as we come to God and we pray to God through.

[00:15:36] The blood of Jesus Christ, we can. Enter boldly into the throne of grace. Well, to the Hebrew people, the throne of grace, where God was, was the holy of holies. So as they wandered through the wilderness. As they traveled, this is where God met them.

[00:15:57] But today we have access right into the presence of God through the blood of Jesus.

[00:16:08] The altar there had incense. He said, you shall burn.

[00:16:13] Incense, burn thereon sweet incense. Verse seven of Exodus 30. Every morning when he dressed the lamps. And he shall burn incense upon it. And when Aaron lied the lamps at evening, he shall burn incense upon it, a perpetual incense before the Lord throughout your generations.

[00:16:34] Ye shall offer no strange incense thereon, nor burn offerings, nor meat offerings, neither shall ye pour drink offerings thereon. So God was very particular on what. Happened here and how it happened at the beginning of the day, at the end of the day, that’s where the high priest would begin his day and end his day in prayer. I think that’s a good example to us. We wake up in the morning, we present ourselves to the Lord, a living sacrifice.

[00:17:05] Here am I, Lord, send me, what would you have me do today? And at the end of the day. Thank you, Lord, for this day, thank you for your blessings and we end our day in prayer. And I think that’s a good example of our Christian walk and how we ought to do this. Now, this incense, just for a side.

[00:17:24] Note, was a special mixture of herbs. And spices that was only to be. Used as a burnt incense. And you can read about that. I won’t go into it tonight in Exodus 30, verses 34 through 38.

[00:17:41] So.

[00:17:44] That’S the altar of incense there that it’s talking about in verse four. So I hope that’s clear to everybody there. Now, he goes on to describe.

[00:18:01] The. Ark of the Covenant, which is like this, you had the two cherubims and I’ll just go ahead and it talks. About the mercy seat on it. We’ve heard of that. And under this mercy seat so you see the staves in the picture there.

[00:18:21] If you don’t know where I’m looking, I’ve got in the Chat there, I put up some pictures, the staves that. They would carry it. This again was made of Akaya wood overlaid with gold. The Akaya wood is a picture of. His humanity, overlaid with gold is a.

[00:18:37] Picture of his deity. And you see the cherubims with their wings stretched forward over this flat area on top. This is actually a lid, like we’d. Say, a lid to a box. And this lid is the mercy seat.

[00:18:51] And these cherubims in verse five and over at the cherubims of glory shadowed. The mercy seat of which we cannot speak particularly. So these cherubims had their outstretched arms. Over the mercy seat. And in between these cherubims, you see.

[00:19:10] Several residences in Scripture where it talks. About between the cherubims. This is where he’s talking about the mercy seat. When the high priest would sacrifice and bring the blood in, he would sprinkle it seven times in the middle there. Under the wings of the cherubims.

[00:19:29] And that was where he applied the. Blood on the mercy seat. And cherubims often in Scripture are always protecting the holiness of God, you see? And there’s never just one cherubim or cherubim, there’s cherubims. It seems that in most times in Scripture, remember in Genesis three when he drove Adam and Eve out of the.

[00:19:54] Garden, he put cherubims per laurel at. The gate of the garden to protect. The tree of life and to keep them out of the garden. We see when jesus, Rose. Our great High Priest, the Lamb of God which takes away the sins of.

[00:20:14] The world when he rose from the. Dead in the account of John. In John chapter 20, verse twelve they. Came up to the sepulchre the tomb and seeing two angels in white sitting the one at the head and the other at the feet where the body of Jesus laid. So perfect picture of the tabernacle and of Moses, of the cherubims overshadowing where Jesus was laid.

[00:20:44] Just a neat picture. Interesting thing to me that the two. Cherubims on the Ark of the Covenant. And then when Jordan saw them, there was two angels sitting at the head and at the foot of where Jesus laid. So I just thought that was interesting.

[00:20:59] I thought I would bring that out to you again. If y’all have any questions or something. You don’t understand, please throw it in. The chat or stop me. And I’ll be sure this is clear.

[00:21:10] To you, but I just wanted to. Explain a little bit, because he goes. In pretty good detail about the Ark of the Covenant or the tabernacle in. The Old Testament, in the temple, and very interesting study. It really opens up a lot of scripture to me.

[00:21:27] And as I studied the tabernacle and just made the whole Bible come together. For me, I know it’s Old Testament. I know it’s for the Hebrew, but. A lot of things that said in. The rest of Scripture, you see, can.

[00:21:43] Understand now because of what they’re describing in the tabernacle. So we go to verse six. Now, when these things were thus ordained. The priest went always into the first. Tabernacle and accomplishing the service of God.

[00:22:02] But in the second, the high priest. Went high priest only once a year, not without blood, which he offered for. Himself and for the heirs of the people.

[00:22:18] It was inaccessible to people. We see in these two verses. No one was allowed to go here. But the high priest. Oh, by the way, tonight I’m reading in King James and I did that on purpose because when we get to chapter ten, I think it’s important.

[00:22:38] I just like the way the King James puts it and I understand it, but she’s doing it in the ESV, which is fine. I normally read out of ESV, but. Just a little side note there. So it was not accessible to just. Anyone, only the priest or the high priest.

[00:22:54] And the priest, the tribe of Levi were permitted to do work in the tabernacle when only the high priest could. Go once a year with the blood. To offer the sins for himself and for the people. So just interesting, now that our high priest has entered, once we’ll talk about later, we have access right into the holy of holies or to the throne of God.

[00:23:25] I want to for a second here. Just talk about the duties of the priest a little bit and what he would do.

[00:23:36] Normally the high priest looked like this his garments, this was the garments of. The high priest with his ephod and. All these different things and the miter on his head that said holiness to the Lord the breastplate that had the twelve stones, each representing a tribe of Israel. And that was a picture of that. The twelve tribes of Israel was near and dear to his heart as he.

[00:24:03] Ministered to the Lord on their behalf. And in this little ephod here you had the URiM and the thuram that they would make decisions. And there’s some speculation and talk about that, but a lot of people just believe it was a white stone and a black stone. And when they had to make a decision a lot of time you’ll see where the king would go. I think Saul went and some others.

[00:24:26] And they’d ask the high priest, what about this? And he’d pull a URiM or, you. Know, one meant yes and one meant no. And that’s how they made know. My wife and I flip a quarter now, so I guess that’s our no.

[00:24:41] That’s a very good way of making decisions, but that’s what they did back in that time. So if you see about the URiM and Thuram, that’s what that’s about. But on the Day of Atonement or. Yom Kippur, yom means day and Kippur means covering. The Day of covering or the Day.

[00:25:00] Of Atonement.

[00:25:03] The Jewish calendar started. The first day of the year was I can’t pronounce a lot of these. Rosh Hashanah, some of you may be. Better than I am was the beginning. Of the new year.

[00:25:17] So at the beginning of that new. Year, for nine days they would do. A self denial kind of thing and seeking to get closer to the Lord. It was almost like a time of fasting that they were preparing for Yom Kippur and the Day of Atonement on day ten. So the new year started for nine days.

[00:25:40] They just sort of didn’t do much. And they sought the Lord to get close to the Lord. What sins that I need to confess and all these other things that they would do. And they would deprive themselves of different things until the Day of Atonement, on day ten. Then the high priest normally wore this garment as he ministered and he would begin the day that way.

[00:26:07] But then when it got later into. The ceremony of it the high priest would wear just a white covering. I forget the technical name of it. But he would take off all of his priestly garb all the gold and. All the colors and all those things that people just really looked up to.

[00:26:31] It was a beautiful thing to see the high priest in his priestly garments. But on the Day of Atonement he just wore white. This too is a picture of Christ jesus left his glory in heaven and. Became a man to serve as our. High priest to die for the sins of the world.

[00:26:51] So even in that every little part. Of the tabernacle points in one way. Or another to the work of Jesus Christ. When he came to die for the sins of the world as he came and entered to be our high priest. So on the Day of Atonement, he would do this.

[00:27:09] There were several washings that he would do. Remember we talked about the labor. We see that one where he would. Wash in this big bowl, the labor that had the mirrors in it. And as he washed, he would see.

[00:27:24] Himself saying that, I am the one that needs cleansing as much as the. Sins of the people. This is a picture of God’s word. This was made of bronze, which is symbolic of judgment. As we look into the word of God, it judges us.

[00:27:42] It convicts us of any wrongdoings or. Things that we need cleansing of. So he would wash at the thing and go to the altar of incense that we talked about before the Lord, and he would offer these sacrifices on that day. There were several things, and one of them was these two goats. They had the scapegoat.

[00:28:06] And again, there’s a Jewish name for it, but I’m not that good with Jewish names. So there was two goats, and one they would sacrifice, and one they would tie a red ribbon around his horns and send him off into the wilderness to run away. This was where a picture of Christ dying for our sins on the cross. And shedding his blood. And because of that, the priest was.

[00:28:34] Lay his hands on this scapegoat, tie this red ribbon and send him off in reference to I will remember their. Sins no more because of the blood. Of Jesus, this scapegoat would go to be seen no more. This was a representative of our sins being taken away once and for all. And this was part of the Day of Atonement.

[00:28:56] And the red heifer that was sacrificed, and the rams and the sprinkling of. The blood on the mercy seat, all. This took place on the Day of Atonement. And then on day 15, after the new year, you had the Feast of Tabernacles, where they celebrated that God had forgiven or their sins had been atoned for another year. And so they did this often.

[00:29:23] They did this every year. And I just wanted you to get a picture of what they were so accustomed to, why they struggled so hard. With now that Jesus has done this. And this is what the writer is saying, he’s fulfilled all this. He became our high priest, a better high priest, a better covenant.

[00:29:43] Now he’s serving in a better sanctuary. A better tabernacle for us. He says in verse eight. Is there any questions on that to that point? I know I’m rushing through this.

[00:29:55] I just want to be sure everybody’s got it. If there’s. Nothing else. Romans eight. The Holy Ghost.

[00:30:03] This signifying that the way into the. Holiest of all was not yet made. Manifest while as the first tabernacle was yet standing. So the first tabernacle was just temporary. It was a shadow of things to come, but also a figure, as we’ll.

[00:30:23] See in a few minutes, of a. Same thing, a light thing in heavenly places. So the Holy Ghost has revealed to. Us now he’s saying, and they understood they couldn’t go into the Holy of Holies, but we see where Jesus died on the cross. The veil was rent from top to.

[00:30:44] Bottom, saying that whosoever will may come. Through the blood of Jesus? But the Old Testament thing was a. Temporary shadow of things to come, of. Better things to come, as it says, and also a figure of something in heaven.

[00:31:04] We’ll look at that here in just. A little bit more. So the ministry of the Old Testament tabernacle or temple, you need to understand, was an external expression of their faith. They believed what God said. They believed again, as I said last.

[00:31:24] Week, I think in our study, I believe in the Old Testament, they were saved just like we are today, by grace, through faith. The grace didn’t seem so apparent as it is today. I understand that, but it was by faith, and you go all the way back to Abraham by faith. God counted Abraham righteous. So I believe that they were saved the same way.

[00:31:49] But this was an external expression of their faith as they offered these sacrifices. As a picture or of a shadow. Of a better thing to come, which is Jesus Christ. So they look toward Christ. We look back to Christ and what he did for us on the cross.

[00:32:06] So we’ll see in the next couple. Of verses that he talks about it being an external ministry, which was a figure in verse nine for a time then present. It served its purpose is basically what he’s saying, in which we offered both gifts and sacrifices. Now listen to this next part. That could not make Him that did the service perfect as pertaining to conscience, the law and all that sacrificial system could not make them perfect.

[00:32:42] It was impossible. It was just a picture. What makes us perfect is only the blood of Jesus. I think this ties back with Hebrews six six, as I was talking about. It’s impossible to renew them under repentance if you’re offering sacrifices.

[00:32:59] It can’t do it. It can’t make you perfect. Only the blood of Jesus could have done that. And with you offering sacrifices, all you’re doing is trampling underfoot the Son of God because these sacrifices of calves and. Lambs and red Heifers and all this.

[00:33:16] Was all a picture of Christ in his shed blood. And if you’re continuing to do that, you’re just saying that his blood wasn’t good enough. I need to go back and keep doing these things. And I think this is the whole thing of the problem that he was addressing in Hebrews. Hebrews?

[00:33:32] Stop acting like Hebrews. Verse ten, which stood only in meats and drinks and divers, washings and carnal ordinances, man made. Ordinances imposing on them until the time of reformation, until the time of fulfillment, of the time that it would all come to fruition. And Jesus revealed, I am he. I am as John the Badger said, behold the Lamb of God which taketh away the sins of the world.

[00:34:02] This is the time where Christ fulfilled that. And it said, I am the one that is promised, I am all those sacrifices that spoke of me. He says Moses spoke of me. This is how Moses spoke of me. And doing these sacrificial systems and all that, it was all about Jesus.

[00:34:20] So now in the next several verses we see the superiority of Christ with. His work in a heavenly sanctuary. Not an earthly sanctuary, not a carnal sanctuary sanctuary, but a heavenly, a better sanctuary that our Savior works in. Verse eleven. But Christ become a high priest of good things to come.

[00:34:48] When Christ came and he died as our high priest and did his priestly work, there was better things to come by a greater and more perfect tabernacle not made with hands, that is to say, not of this building. The writers wanted the readers to focus their attention on the things of heaven and not on the things of earth. Get your mind off of all this tabernacle worship that we’ve done for thousands of years. And because of Christ, our focus is now on heaven in heavenly places, it. Says, and he’s trying to get their attention.

[00:35:29] Our high priest is now in heaven, making as a mediator between us and God. The high priest of the Old Testament was a mediator between God and the people. So Jesus now is our mediator in heavenly places. And in Jesus doing it in heavenly places, it is more effective to deal with sin. Verse twelve he said, neither by the blood of goats and calves, but by.

[00:36:00] His own blood he entered once into. The holy place, having obtained eternal redemption for us. That’s Hebrews 912. For if the blood of bulls and. Goats, and blood of bulls, and of.

[00:36:14] Goats, and of the ashes, and of. Heifer sprinkled the unclean thing sanctified to the purifying of the flesh. The writer again it is discussing and showing him the inferiority of animal sacrifices. It could not make him that did the service, or it could not make those who sacrificed these animals perfect. But he began to lay the foundation here for verse ten.

[00:36:44] I always like how in Hebrews the writer just really in the chapter, if you’ll look at the verses before, he always just gives you a glimpse of what’s coming, what he’s going to talk about next? And here’s what he’s talking about a better sacrifice than those of bulls and guts. Verse 14 of chapter nine. How much more shall the blood of Christ, who through eternal spirit offered himself without spot to God, purge your conscience from dead works to serve the living God. So see the tabernacle and all that ritual and religion of that cannot purge or make those perfect as pertaining to God.

[00:37:27] But the blood of Jesus does. The power of Jesus blood to cleanse us of our sins, to purge us of our sins, and from dead works. These dead works member in Hebrews six one is the works of the law and the sacrificial system. These are dead works and we go away from those things to serve the living God. The last part of verse 14 there.

[00:37:57] So we’re moving from an outward expression in our flesh to an inward expression, our conscience. That’s what he said, I will write my laws on their hearts. It’s no longer an outward expression of our faith, but an inward from the inside out is an expression. The Holy Spirit lives within us, Christ lives in us. It’s an inward thing today, not so much an outward thing, it was a ritual kind of thing.

[00:38:26] In the Old Testament today is by. A new and living way that we. Serve God through a sincere heart. So we see this here in this. Thing that the blood of Jesus, how much more shall the blood of Christ without spot to God.

[00:38:47] It was very important that these sacrifices were made and that they would examine the Heifer, they examined the Lamb and make sure there was no blemishes on it. Why? Because it was a picture of Christ without sin, without spot, there was no sin in him. He was the perfect lamb of God. To die for the sins of the world.

[00:39:12] So all that points to Christ. Now in verse 15 for this cause he is the mediator or the Go. Between, the reconcilier, the intercessor of the. New Testament, that by means of death. For the redemption of the transgressions that were under the first Testament, they which are called might receive the promise of eternal inheritance.

[00:39:40] So the promise that was given to Abraham of many nations would be blessed because of through Him and through his seed, Jesus would come through Israel, jesus would come and die for the sins of the so. And because of his death on the cross, we have that promise of eternal life. He is our mediator. There is no more need for a high priest. There is no need for the Old Testament.

[00:40:13] He began a New Testament, verse 16 for where a testament is, there must also be a necessity of necessity be the death of the testator. For a testament is enforced after men die, otherwise it is no strength at all why the testator liveth.

[00:40:37] This goes back to what we talk about. Whether there’s a will, someone that passes away, and the executor of the state has to I’m actually the executor of my dad’s estate now, trying to work. Through all that he passed away a. Month or two ago. And working through all that, making sure his last wishes are carried out exactly well, like you wanted it for the will, but it really wasn’t in effect until he had passed away.

[00:41:06] Jesus. The New Testament wasn’t in effect until Jesus died and rose again for us on the cross. And so the death of the testator. Introduced the New Testament, the new covenant that God would make not only with Israel. A lot of people say, oh, it’s just for Israel.

[00:41:25] No, there’s a new testament for us that only by the blood of Jesus are we saved. Only by the blood of Jesus are. We placed into the body of Christ, baptized with the Holy Spirit, and we have access to the throne of God through Jesus. This is the new covenant with us, and this New Testament begins, and we have the promise of eternal inheritance, of eternal life with him because of what he did for us on the cross. But what’s also needed about that is that not only did Jesus die that enforced the testament or the agreement, he rose again.

[00:42:08] So Jesus is not only because of. His death, it enforced the will, I. Guess we would say today, or the. Testament that he rose again. He becomes the executor of it.

[00:42:22] As you know, it’d be awesome. My dad was here, and somehow he. Could know, I know I’ve died, and. I’m going to make sure my will is carried out exactly like I wrote. It down for you all.

[00:42:35] And there’s no fussing, no fighting. This is what Jesus has done. He died. The New Testament is enforced. He rose again to now become the executor or the go between the mediator of that testament.

[00:42:51] And I think that’s just awesome there to think that it’s not just left up to man. It’s not left up to anybody. But Jesus enforces this testament. He is the mediator between us and God. He told the disciples in Luke 22 20, this is a new testament or covenant or will in my blood, which is shed for you.

[00:43:17] So he’s saying there that the New. Testament, that because of my blood will. Begin a new covenant with man because. Of what I do on the cross and my death barrel and my resurrection.

[00:43:34] I didn’t know I was getting so late on time. All right. Whereupon neither the first Testament, verse 18, was dedicated without blood. For when Moses had spoken every precept of all the people according to the. Law, he took the blood of calves.

[00:43:50] And of goats, and with water and scarlet wool, and hisop, and sprinkled both the book and all the people. The Book, the law saying, this is the blood of the testament which God. Hath enjoined unto you. Moreover, he sprinkled with blood both the tabernacle and all the vessels of the ministry.

[00:44:16] Even the old covenant was established on. The basis of blood. Hebrews 919 through 21 is taken from. Exodus 24, verses three through eight, the. Account of the ratifying of the old.

[00:44:32] Covenant coming about by Moses and the people of Israel. And it’s interesting to me here in Exodus 24, in particular, verse three, when Moses read all the law and said what all that they were supposed to do, the people responded in verse three. And all the Lord had said, we will do. That was their response. But look what Moses response was.

[00:45:00] Then Moses shed blood, stating, you cannot do what the Lord has said apart from the shedding of blood. You can’t do these don’t. As I’ve said before in our study, god knew we could not keep this law. It was just to point us to Christ to show me that I need a savior. And Moses made that very clear that, no, you cannot do it.

[00:45:26] It’s only through the shedding of blood that we will be found righteous in. The eyes of God. So it says in verse 22, and. Almost all things are by the law, purged with blood. Without the shedding of blood is no remission.

[00:45:42] A lot of people put on there. Of sin, but there’s no remission. And that’s what it’s saying here. There is no covering for sin. There is no payment for sin apart from the shedding of blood.

[00:45:58] And I’ve heard people ask that before. Why blood? The Old Testament is so bloody and why would God choose blood? I don’t know, other than God ordained it, that sin was to be covered by blood or death. We see that with Adam and Eve.

[00:46:14] As I’ve said, that when they sinned. And they tried to cover themselves with fig leaves. That’s religion. We try to cover ourselves, we try to do it ourselves, and we cover ourselves with these fig leaves that Adam and Eve did. And God couldn’t know.

[00:46:30] Something must die. And a ram, I think what it was, died. He took the skins of that ram. And covered their nakedness to cover their shame and to cover their sin. It was instituted by God all the way back into the beginning.

[00:46:47] The only covering for sin was through. The shedding of blood. He also said, as in Leviticus 1711. For the life of the flesh is in the blood. And I think that’s pretty key there as to just give us a little insight.

[00:47:02] Why it was so important to God that sin be covered by blood is because there is life in blood. Without the blood, there is no life. And the life of the flesh, all that we have is from our blood flowing through our body and through our veins and arteries to oxygenate and to build muscles and do it. That’s where we get our life. It’s through the blood.

[00:47:29] We get our life through the blood of Jesus Christ. So only the blood gives life. Now, verse 23, it was therefore necessary. That the patterns of things in the. Heavens here again, he’s talking about, get.

[00:47:44] Your mind off of the earthly tabernacle temple, all that worship, and look to the pattern in heaven, the things that’s. Going on in heaven. We should purify these things, but the heavenly things themselves with better sacrifices than these. These patterns or types were purified by the blood of animals in the Old Testament.

[00:48:08] In the original sanctuary was purified, but the sanctuary in heaven was purified by the blood of the Son of God. This was a far better, far greater price of sacrifice than any of the sacrificial animals in the Old Testament. So he’s still talking about a better ministry that Christ has in heavenly places. I believe, as I’ve told you all before, that there is a set up much like this in heaven before the throne of God. And I believe there’s probably a mercy seat in heaven where Jesus applied his blood on the mercy seat in heaven before the throne of God for the sins of the world, to atone for the sins of the world.

[00:48:59] And it’s evident here’s what he’s talking is patterns of things in the heavens. For Christ has not entered verse 24 into the holy places made with hands, not an earthly tabernacle which are figures of the true. Here again, I think it’s a figure of what the true is or what something in heaven but into heaven itself. Now to appear in the presence of God. For us his ministry represents fulfillment.

[00:49:33] It’s complete, his ministry is final. It point out the obvious difference between the Old Covenant ministry and the New Covenant ministry. The Old Covenant was by men, by sinful men. They were weak through the flesh. The New Covenant was by Jesus the Son of God, who was without sin, who entered into the very presence of God and the throne in heaven to apply his blood on the mercy seat for us.

[00:50:04] So it is a better ministry, a better tabernacle that Jesus serves in in heavenly places, nor yet that he should offer Himself often. See, Jesus, he said no, they did. This every year, continually, year after year. And by the way, they offered other sacrifices throughout the year for different things and all that, but only on the day of tobit was the other part. But they all the time offering sacrifices for sins and different things and transgressions that they had done.

[00:50:40] But it says nor yet that he. Jesus, should offer Himself often as the. High priest entered into the holy place every year with the blood of others. For then he must often have suffered. Since the foundations of the world.

[00:51:00] But now, once in the end of the world hath he appeared to put away sin by the sacrifice of Himself. Now that’s not the end of the. World as the end of the millennium. Or all that, that’s these last days, from the time of Christ till now is referred to in scripture often as the last days or the end of time. All things are fulfilled.

[00:51:23] And now it’s like all the Old Testament. We were climbing up the hill, it came to his apex at the top of the hill with the cross and the resurrection of Christ and the sentient into heaven for us. And now the creation is on its. Downhill slope, its final days, and he’s put away sin by the sacrifice of Himself once and for all. I don’t know how to express it.

[00:51:51] It is finished, he is complete. The work of Christ on the cross is completed. Work, it’s final and it is eternal. There’s nothing to be added to it. There’s nothing to be taken away from it.

[00:52:05] He died never to do it again. We’ll see that again in a little bit here. And it says that appointed unto men once to die, but after this the judgment. So Christ was once offered to bear the sins of many, and unto them. That look for Him shall he appear the second time without sin, unto salvation.

[00:52:30] So Christ died once for the sins of the world. He faced our judgment for us on our behalf. He paid our sin debt, and he offered for the sins of the whole world that we see in that second part of verse 28. So he shall appear a second time without sin unto salvation. Christ appeared the first time to take away the sins of the world.

[00:52:57] He appears the second time not to. Take away sin, but to take us. Home for eternity, completing our salvation. Now, please don’t misunderstand what I’m saying. Our salvation is complete in Christ.

[00:53:13] We trusted Him, our personal savior. You are saved, you are on your way to heaven. You don’t have to wait till you die to figure that out. John tells us in one John 513, these things have I written that you may know that you have eternal life, so we can know that now. But what I’m saying here to complete.

[00:53:33] Our salvation is our salvation is completed with Christ. But the final step, I guess for lack of better word, we receive our glorified bodies to live with Him forever in eternity. So salvation is complete. But the process, we’re in our sanctification process right now, but when we received our glorified bodies in heaven, our salvation is complete for eternity. And that’s what those verses are referring to.

[00:54:10] So it’s not saying that Jesus is. Coming back without sin. He’s not coming back to conquer sin or to deal with sin, but he’s coming back victorious as the King of Kings and Lord of Lords. So that’s chapter nine. Any questions or thoughts on that?

[00:54:35] All right, I’m going to pull up chapter ten here. If there’s anything you all can say it, type it, whatever you want to do, and if not, we’ll go into chapter ten and pull that up. Get me a drink of water, my mouth is dry. I hope this is helpful to you all and encouraging to you to understand this.

[00:55:08] Okay? So just to recap again, chapter seven. Christ is our High Priest. After the order of melchizedek, but he is a better high priest. Chapter eight, the emphasis on Christ brings in a better covenant, a new covenant, and then chapter nine, he serves in a better sanctuary.

[00:55:35] Now, we’re going to see in chapter. Ten, he concludes this section with the. Argument that Christ is a better sacrifice than all that they have ever known. And he was a better sanctuary. Now he’s going to talk about their sacrifices.

[00:55:52] He’s really just explaining to these Hebrews that it is done. Stop being Hebrew, stop going back to. The law, stop going back and putting. This yoke of bondage around your neck, as Paul says. And once again, for those who haven’t been here before, you can galatians, chapter.

[00:56:11] Five, or Galatians five, the whole thing really goes along well with Hebrews. And who has bewitched you? Did you receive the Holy Spirit by. Faith or by the law, basically, is what he’s saying there. And in chapter five, he’s saying if you’re going back to the sacrificial system and doing all these things, christ is becoming no effect to you.

[00:56:33] And this is what they were doing. These judaizers were saying, yeah, Jesus died on the cross and all that, but you still got to do the law, you still got to do this, you. Still got to do that. And so they were struggling back and forth with this. We see this all through the New.

[00:56:48] Testament of their struggle to make the. Transition from the old covenant, the old. Way to the new and living way. Through the blood of Jesus Christ. Now he’s going to go into a better sacrifice.

[00:57:04] Now he says here for the law. Having a shadow of good things to. Come, it’s just a shadow.

[00:57:14] As I said, it’s weak because it was done through the flesh, because the weaknesses of man and sinful man, even the high priest was sinful. He offered not only the sacrifice for the people, but for his own self. And so it was a shadow of good things to come. Jesus Christ was the good thing to come, and not the very image of those things. It was a good representation, but not.

[00:57:41] An exact and it says it was. A shadow of those things to come, not the very image of those things. Can never with those sacrifices which they offered year by year, continually make the comers there unto perfect. For then would they have not ceased. To be offered, because that the worshippers.

[00:58:02] Once purged, should have had no more conscience of sin. If the law and the sacrificial system. Could have made those perfect, could have. Made all those people perfect, then they. Wouldn’T have done it every year.

[00:58:17] They could have done it once and for all. There was no more need for sacrifice. If it could have made them perfect, those who draw near, those Israelites who draw near to worship, then they would have stopped to do those things. But then in verse three, but in those sacrifice, there was a remembrance again made of sin every year. So see, that it wasn’t to make them perfect.

[00:58:44] The sacrificial system and the law and all that was just a constant reminder of I am sinful and I need a savior, and God has promised a savior to come. They didn’t know it was going to, I don’t think in the Old Testament there were some pictures of Christ, the Son of God, if those who understood it. But for the most part, I don’t believe most of them understood that God would become man. He would send his own son to. Die for the sins of the know.

[00:59:17] They didn’t know his name would be Jesus, that progressive revelation thing. But now. They look toward that just the promise of God. As Abraham said, God himself will provide a sacrifice. How, who, when and why, Abraham didn’t understand, but he believed God, that he would pay for the sins of the world one way or another.

[00:59:41] So if those sacrifices could have taken. Away sins, they would have ceased. But those sacrifices, as he says in verse three, was only to remind them of their sinfulness. It wasn’t meant to take away sin. So those who tell you that, oh.

[00:59:59] Yeah, they were saved through the sacrificial system and the law and all that. No, they were not. They were saved by faith, by believing God. And this was an outward expression of their faith. All right?

[01:00:12] So I hope that’s clear to everybody. Now, verse four, chapter ten four. For it is not possible that the. Blood of bulls and of goats should take away sin. See, it would never take away sin.

[01:00:25] Wherefore when he cometh into the world, he saith, sacrifice and offerings thou wouldst. Not, but a body thou hast prepared for me. In burnt offerings and sacrifices for sin. Thou hast no pleasure. Then said I lo.

[01:00:42] I am. Come. In the volume of the book, it. Is written of me to do thy will, O God. Now, this is quoting Psalms 40 and.

[01:00:53] There’S another reference there in Matthew 26 39. This is what Jesus is saying I have come to do the will of the Father. So we see here almost a I forget the technical term for it, but when the Old Testament brings out Scripture, and it’s actually a quote of what Jesus would later say, or Jesus quotes. It, it is speaking of Jesus himself. Sacrifice and all thou wouldst not but a body you prepared for me.

[01:01:24] Jesus became flesh and burn, offerings and sacrifice for sin. Thou hast no pleasure. All this Old Testament sacrificial system, god. Has no pleasure in that. It doesn’t take away sin.

[01:01:37] It doesn’t solve our sin problem. Only Jesus comes and he says in. Verse seven, I’m come in the volume. Of the book, it is written of. Me, the law and all the Old Testament.

[01:01:49] Now we have the completed New Testament. It is all about jesus. It all is about him. It is all written of Him and his work on the cross and Him being our mediator between us and God, and then dying for the sins of the world. It’s all about Jesus.

[01:02:08] So verse eight above, when he said. Sacrifice an offering and burn offerings and offerings for sin thou wouldst not. Neither hast pleasure therein which are offered by the law. So God took no pleasure in that. It didn’t accomplish that.

[01:02:25] It was weak. That’s why he sent his son. Then he said, Lo, I am come to do thy will, o God. He taketh away the first that he. May establish the second, the first covenant.

[01:02:37] The Law, the sacrificial system. Now he’s fulfilled all that on the cross and his death, burial and resurrection. And establishes a new covenant. He set aside the law, the external ministry, the act of religion. See, I hope you understand that anything we do that we think we can.

[01:02:59] Get to help ourselves get to God is religion. And God’s not interested in religion. What God’s interested in is a broken and contrite heart, as David said. What God’s interested in is a relationship with you, an internal, where you have Christ in you. And he establishes the Second, which is an internal ministry.

[01:03:22] It’s the act of our heart. So Jesus says out of abundance of. The heart, the mouth speaketh, it’s no. Longer external, but an internal. And that’s what we have today.

[01:03:35] That he’s written his laws on our. Hearts and on our minds and through. The work of the Holy Spirit reveals that to us. And we serve Him with a true. Heart, not just because it’s ritual or.

[01:03:48] It’S religion, but because we love Him. Because we know he loves us and we want to serve Him by the which verse ten we are sanctified through. The offering of the blood of Jesus. Christ, once for all. We are sanctified.

[01:04:06] We are set apart through the blood of Jesus Christ, once and for all. That Jesus loved the Father and the world, he submitted himself to the will. Of the Father, not because the Law said to, but because of love, because. Of his great love for the Father, because of his love for the world, he did the will of the Father to reconcile man back to God. John 1431 he says in Jesus speaking.

[01:04:38] But that the world may know that I love the Father and as the. Father gave me commandment, even, so I do arise. Let’s go hence. And in John 15 nine as the. Father has loved me, so I have loved you.

[01:04:55] Continue in my love. Well, there’s a good message for a lot of these TikTok people. We don’t see much love there, but I’ll get off my soapbox. Philippians two six through eight, who, being. In the form of God, thought it not robbery to be equal with God, but made himself of no reputation and took upon Him the form of a servant and was made in the likeness of men.

[01:05:19] And being found in the fashion as a man, he humbled himself.

[01:05:26] He humbled himself and became obedient unto. Death, even the death of the cross. So now we’ll go on to verse eleven. And every high priest standeth daily ministering and offering oftentimes the same sacrifices which can never take away sins. So he’s just really driving this home that the blood of bulls and goats and all this could never take away sin.

[01:05:56] But this man, Jesus, is who he’s referring to after he had offered one. Sacrifice himself for the sins forever, sat. Down at the right hand of God, from henceforth expecting till his enemies be made his footstool. See, we see here again a very important thing that he’s driving home to these Hebrew people that in the old tabernacle and temple of all the furniture in there, as I’ve told y’all, what was the one thing missing? There was no chairs.

[01:06:31] There was no place for the high priest to he. And that’s because the work was never done. But Jesus, when he finished his work. The finished work of Christ on the cross, he was able to set down because it was finished. And he sat down at the right.

[01:06:49] Hand of the Father, Hebrews one three. Who being in the brightness of his glory and the expressed image of his. Person and upholding all things by the word of his power, when he had. By Himself purged our sins, set down at the right of the majesty on high. So just reiterating again here the fact that he set down is evidence of his finished work.

[01:07:17] It is finished. For by one offering he hath perfected. Forever them that are sanctified. Perfected until we sin again. Perfected until we get tired of it and walk away.

[01:07:32] No, he had perfected forever. And we’ll talk about a little more about that in just a few minutes. I’ll get into that at the end of this chapter. I hope we get yeah, we should get there. So he’s being made the sanctification process.

[01:07:53] Them that are sanctified, we are being sanctified, we’re being made into the image of his dear Son. Yes, our salvation is complete and we are saved at the point of salvation. Then we start our sanctification process. We saw that in the beginning of Hebrews chapter six, our justification sanctification and then our glorification. So this is the covenant, verse 16, that I will make with them after.

[01:08:21] Those days, saith the Lord, I will put my laws in their hearts and in their minds will I write them and their sins, and iniquities will I remember no more. Now, where the remissions of these is, there is no more offering for sin.

[01:08:39] Where sin is paid for, where the remissions of sins is, where sin stopped, the covering sin is paid for once and for all. There was no more need for a sacrificial system. There. Was no more need for that. And then as I said earlier, he.

[01:08:55] Writes these laws this on our hearts and on our minds, that we may know Him with a true heart and. Serve Him in spirit and truth. So he’s written that on our hearts. And verse 17 their sins and iniquities will I remember no more. Remember the scapegoat and the one they sent away was symbolic of his remembering our sins no more because we are washed in the blood of Jesus and.

[01:09:23] When God sees us, he sees His Son. We stand righteous before Him because of. The blood of Jesus. He remembers our sin no more. That ought to be encouraging to all of us, having therefore brethren boldness to.

[01:09:39] Enter into the holiest by the blood of Jesus. See, this is something the Hebrews listeners would never have thought of, that we. Could have boldness to go into the holiest. That was only for the High priest. He’s saying now that Jesus has done.

[01:09:59] This, the veil was rent. We have the boldness to enter into the holiest of holies through the blood of Jesus. We don’t need a high priest. Our high priest is in heaven making intercession for us and he has opened wide the gate to us that we. May enter in by a new and living way.

[01:10:20] Verse 20 which he hath concentrated for. Us through the veil, that is to say his flesh. So through his flesh, through his broken body, who died for our sins on. The cross he has made access to the very throne of God. We go boldly into the throne of grace.

[01:10:42] We cry up, I want to say. We crawl up in his lap and. Cry abba Father, because of what Jesus did for us on the cross. Well, that’s good stuff. Just trying to get my composure here.

[01:10:59] I don’t want to go to preaching, I’m trying to maintain control. Y’all y’all know I get a little. Bit excited sometimes but that’s just awesome. Stuff to know there. Don’t let Satan tear you down and he’ll want to bring your sins up to you all the time, how terrible you are and how awful you are.

[01:11:17] And I can just see Jesus sitting at the right hand of the Father and when he makes intercession it’s not like he’s up there pleading a case with the Father and saying oh no, I died for know we’ve heard preachers say that and I think I’ve probably even done that before. But I’ve had a new understanding that he’s sitting at the right hand of. The Father and he sits there and. As he sits there and the accuser of the brethren comes before him say, you know, Kenny’s a sorry rascal and you see what he did. The Father just looks down at the Son’s hand and sees him nailed starred.

[01:11:51] Hands and says yeah, I know, but my son died for his sin and. He’S covered by the blood of Jesus. Oh my goodness. That’s awesome. The only scars that we’ll have, a brand new glorified body.

[01:12:10] We’ll be all things made new and. No more sickness, no more pain. And I believe all of our scars will be gone. But there’ll be some scars in heaven. And that’s the precious Lamb of God.

[01:12:22] I believe those scars will be there forever as a constant reminder to us of what he did for us on the cross through the veil that is his flesh that was broken for us on the cross. Amen. Amen. Amen.

[01:12:41] We can enter into the presence of. God through his broken body, through his shed blood. When we do communion or the Lord’s Supper, the broken pieces of bread is his body. The cup of juice. And some churches depend on who you go to.

[01:12:56] May drink actual wine is representative of his blood. And it is a remembrance for us to identify and to say that what he did for us on the cross. I have access to the very throne of God. And having verse 21 and having a. High priest over the house of God verse nine, the priestly ministry of Christ in the heavenly see Jesus.

[01:13:22] Why it’s such a better sacrifice, a better temple, a better high priest is because he’s right there in the presence of God. A high priest right before the throne. Of God, day and night, with his. Nailed, scarred hands and the scarred in his side and a reminder of what Christ did for us on the cross. Verse 24 says, for Christ has not entered I’m getting ahead, I know, but think it’s a good place to read this.

[01:13:51] For Christ is not entered into holy places made by hands this tabernacle here on earth, which is a figure of the truth, but into the heaven itself now to appear in the presence of God for us.

[01:14:06] So verse 22. Let us draw near with a true heart in full assurance of faith. Having our hearts sprinkled from an evil conscience and our bodies washed with pure. Water, we are washed in the I. Love that old song.

[01:14:23] Are you washed in the blood of the Lamb? In the soul cleansing blood of the. Lamb are you washed we come to. Him in a true heart. What’s a true heart?

[01:14:35] I acknowledge him. I acknowledge him. I am a sinner, but I am. Washed in the blood of Jesus Christ. So I therefore come in full assurance, not of what I did, but of what he did for me on the.

[01:14:49] Cross, what my Savior did for me. I know I’m a sinful man, but I know that Jesus died for my sins on the cross. Therefore I come with the full assurance. Of faith, not wavering. There’s nothing I can do to bring.

[01:15:06] Me any closer to God than what Jesus did for me on the cross. So verse 23. Let us hold fast the profession of. Our faith without wavering. For he is faithful that promised.

[01:15:21] And we talked about earlier in the. Promise that God made in the last part of chapter six. God promised it, he and sealed it with his own self with an oath. And God cannot back out of a. Promise that I give unto them eternal.

[01:15:39] Life and they shall never perish. We are safe and secure forever in the blood of Jesus Christ. Let us hold fast to the profession of our faith. Not going back is what he’s saying here to the law and the sacrificial system. Don’t go back to all that.

[01:15:59] There’s nothing for you there. It cannot wash away your sins. It cannot bring you to place of repentance. All you’re doing is doing a symbolic or a shadow of crucifying the Son of God all over again. Let us consider one another to provoke.

[01:16:15] Unto love and into good works not dead works. That’s what Jesus told us when he left. He told his disciples, they will know. You are my disciples if you love one another. How many times did Jesus say the most important thing is to love?

[01:16:31] How many times did Paul say the most important thing is to say is that we love one another. Let us consider one another and provoke unto love, unto perfection in love and the good works, not dead works of the law. And we see in Hebrews six one these old dead works. This is what he’s talking about in six, I think chapter ten and six to me just sort of tie and chapter six was a glimpse and then I call chapter seven the grand finale. He just ties it all together, six nine through ten.

[01:17:08] But love that we are better persuaded, better things of you and things that accompany salvation. Though thus we speak. For God is not unrighteous to forget your work and your labor of love which you have showed toward his name and that you minister to the saints and do minister. That’s what he’s saying here. Get away from all this sacrificial system and all this constant reminder of your sin and shame and let’s go on to perfection.

[01:17:37] Let’s go on to loving one another, encouraging one another, producing good fruits and good crops and not be bound and taken back again to those sacrificial system in the law. Get away from that. He’s telling them to do it. And go on to things that accompany salvation. I’m sorry guys, I’m trying to calm down but this is just good stuff.

[01:18:05] Verse 25. Not forsaking the assembling of yourselves together as a manner of some is, but exhorting one another and so much more as you see the day approaching. Now I think this verse is here. And it’s a very good verse for us today. That the importance of going to church.

[01:18:24] I mean, you can do online church. We can do this online. But you know what, all you are. Here in this voice chat. I can’t put my arm around you.

[01:18:34] And love on you. I’m a hugger kind of person and just tell you how much I love you and I appreciate you. I’m praying for you. There’s nothing better than that, than that personal fellowship that we have. I wish somehow we could all get together someday before heaven.

[01:18:49] If not, we’ll do it in heaven. But we’ll get together and encourage and love on one another. So it’s important for us to assemble ourselves together. But I think the reason he puts. This in here is, okay, he’s telling.

[01:19:04] These Hebrew writers, do away of all that temple worship where you always came together. He said, do away with all that. You don’t need that, it’s all complete. So he’s almost anticipating these people think it’s not important to go to church. And saying, no, don’t not come together.

[01:19:23] It’s still important that you come together to love on one another, to edify one another, to encourage one another, lift one another up. But don’t come together for sacrificial stuff. Come together in love and just enjoy the finished work of Jesus Christ that you have been washed in the blood. And it’s so much more important as the days get worse and worse and worse as we see Paul talk about and Peter talks about in the last days how things will get. It’s important that we come together.

[01:19:55] He’s encouraging these Hebrews don’t forsake that now. Don’t stop coming together. Just don’t come together and do sacrifices. Don’t come together and do all those things that you’ve done for thousand years. Come together in love.

[01:20:09] It’s no longer come together to confess sins and make offering for sacrifices, but to edify one another, encourage one another. And to love one another. And that is so true today for us all. I get a lot out of this. I enjoy this with you all, but man, it would sure would be nice.

[01:20:28] And after we get through, we just. Sort of stand around and talk and love on one another and pray for. One another and help one another. Those are just great times. Now, verse 26, verse that a lot of people have a lot of problem with.

[01:20:43] And I hope by now you have. The context of Hebrews, hebrews, stop being Hebrews. Jesus is enough. He is superior, he is supreme. And you’re going back to the sacrificial system and you keep doing this.

[01:21:00] So what he says here, for if. We sin willfully after that we have. Received the knowledge of the truth, there remaineth no more sacrifice for sin. Now, the NIV says if we deliberately. Keep sinning, I don’t think it’s a good interpretation.

[01:21:19] That’s not what this is saying in the context of what he’s saying here. If you go all the way back. To the beginning, the first verse of. Chapter ten, he’s talking about this sacrificial system. And if you keep going back to.

[01:21:33] That and you sin and you go. Back to the second, there is no more sacrifice for sin. It’s complete in Jesus Christ. It’s not talking about if we go on sinning deliberately. The ESV says that too.

[01:21:51] I just don’t think that’s a good translation. It doesn’t fit the context of what he’s talking about. It doesn’t fit the context of Hebrews. I’m sorry, I don’t have that belief that I’m saying. If we willfully one, it could apply to non believers.

[01:22:09] If we willfully reject the Holy Spirit, if we sin, that one sin. If we willfully sin the rejection of the finished work of the Holy Spirit or the finished work of Christ for. Salvation, there’s nothing left. So as an unbeliever, if you reject the calling of the Holy Spirit that you’re a sinner and you need a savior and you say, I don’t want that stuff, and you continue to do. That, you’re not going to work your.

[01:22:40] Way to heaven, there’s nothing else to get you to heaven. There is no sacrifice for you. You are not washed in the blood. Of Jesus, I think is what that verse is saying. But a lot of people want to say, based on the different translations nowadays, that, oh, if we do a willful.

[01:22:57] Sin or we deliberately sin, then there’s. No sacrifice for sin. Now, where in scripture does it tell you that? Where else in scripture does it tell you that? I find nowhere.

[01:23:10] My Bible tells me that Jesus paid the sin debt once and for all. All sins, past, present and future, are. Paid for on the cross through the. Blood of my Savior. So that doesn’t fit.

[01:23:26] There’s no sacrifice for sin if I deliberately sin. That doesn’t fit anywhere in scripture. I think what he’s saying here, like I said, one, you could apply it to a non believer who’s trying to work his way to heaven or try. To do something, but there’s no more. Sacrifice for sin than Jesus Christ.

[01:23:45] There’s no other way to do it other than through the blood of Jesus. Now.

[01:23:53] Jesus even says in Matthew 1231. Through 32, he says wherefore I say. Unto you, all manner of sin and. Blasphemy shall be forgiven unto men all sins doesn’t say there’s not a sacrifice. For sin if you do it deliberately.

[01:24:09] He says all sins will be forgiven. Men, but one sin, the blasphemy against. The Holy Ghost shall not be forgiven unto men. So if we go on sinning rejecting the truth, the knowledge of the truth. That the Holy Spirit reveals to you people, there’s nothing else to save you.

[01:24:29] There is no other sacrifice for sin but Jesus Christ. That’s the way I interpret Hebrews 1026. I know there’s a lot of people different, I know a lot of translations. Say it different, but in the context of these.

[01:24:51] A better ministry, a better. Tabernacle, and a better sacrifice, it’s what he’s saying here. And you could say to my battery, just said it’s about to die. I hope it lasts here for a few more minutes. It could be to us as Christians too, guys.

[01:25:14] We sin and we think so many. Times we fall short and we sin daily and we confess our sin and then we say, I need to get back in church. I need to do this. I need to do this for a little. I better start teaching Sunday school, I better put more money in the offering plate, I better help a little lady across the street, I better go street preach.

[01:25:31] I better do this to sort of. Get in good favor with God again, because I fell short and because I sinned. There is no more sacrifice. You’re trying to, just like they did, do a sacrifice for a sin. You’re trying to do something to gain favor with God.

[01:25:51] And there is no way but through the blood of Jesus Christ, there is no other sacrifice for sin but through. The blood of Jesus Christ. That’s what those verses are saying. So I hope that’s clear to you. Maybe if you have a difference on.

[01:26:09] That, you could tell me. But I’m pretty firm in what I. Believe about that, in the context of what’s going on in Hebrews, and especially chapter ten. So if we reject that, if an unbeliever rejects that, that his blood, the. Sacrifice for sin, what has he got.

[01:26:30] To look forward to but a certain. Fearful verse 27 looking for of judgment. A fire indignation which shall devour the adversaries? If you reject the blood of Jesus. Christ on the cross, you have no expectation.

[01:26:49] The only other expectation for you is God’s wrath on your sin. It’s paid for once and for all. All you have to do is accept it. But if you reject it, there is. Nothing else, and God’s wrath will fall.

[01:27:03] On you and you will spend eternity. In hell because you did not accept. Jesus as your personal Savior, to reject Christ and to continue in this law, all you can expect is judgment and death. Two Corinthians 36, who also has made us ministers of a New Testament, not by the letter or the law, but by the Spirit. For the letter killeth, but the Spirit gives life.

[01:27:31] So in Christ, if we’ve accepted him, we have life and life. We have no worries or no fear. Of death because of what Christ does. We have no fear of God’s wrath on us because of sin. We are washed in the blood of Jesus Christ.

[01:27:48] He goes on to say here and pairing back to the law, that he. That despised Moses law died without mercy under two or three witnesses in the Old Testament. If you despise the law of God, they would stone you. You were cast out. It was tough.

[01:28:12] And how much more sore punishment suppose. Ye shall he be through thought worthy. Who trotted underfoot the Son of God, reject the finished work of Christ. And we can compare this again to Hebrews six six not rejecting but crucifying again, putting Him to open shame. You trotted underfoot.

[01:28:35] We see the same words there in Hebrews six six. So these sacrificial system just again is. Just crucifying all over the Son of God, and has counted the blood of. The covenant, wherewith he was sanctified an. Unholy thing and hath done despite on.

[01:28:55] The spirit of grace. So unbeliever. If you’re rejecting the calling of the Holy Spirit on you that you’re a sinner and you need to be saved, that spirit of grace, that is another term for the Holy Spirit. You’re rejecting that there’s nothing left for you but condemnation. Christians, you are washed in the blood.

[01:29:19] And when Satan comes and you fall or you fall and do something wrong and Satan just beats you up about it and you think you got to do XYZ to get back in good standings with God. That’s not true. You are in good stand. There’s consequences for our sins, but all he wants us to do is to come back to agree with Him. That was a sin.

[01:29:40] And he is faithful and just, and. He has forgiven us of that sin. I will remember your sins no more. Verse 30 will we know him that said vengeance is mine, vengeance belong unto me. I will recompense, says the Lord.

[01:29:57] And again the Lord shall judge his people. This is a quote from Deuteronomy 32. 35. We forget, I think sometimes you hear so much on people talking and on TikTok about your sin, that sin, you better not sin. As a Christian, Paul struggled with sin.

[01:30:18] I struggle with sin. And going back to verse 26 of. Willful sin, I think if everybody was. Honest with ourselves, we’re all guilty of willful sin. Does that mean our sins are no longer covered?

[01:30:29] Absolutely not. See, we forget how powerful God is and how fully capable he is of correcting his children. We forget the power of the cross and what it does for us, what the precious blood of Jesus did for us on the cross. We forget the power that’s in that. And how we focus a lot of.

[01:30:53] Times on our sins and forget the. Power of God we’ll talk about in chapter twelve. If you’re his children, he’s going to correct you. And these people that go around saying all the time, you just think you’re saved and you just live any old way you want to. No, I cannot.

[01:31:13] One, the Holy Spirit guides me in the right path and I may disobey Him. But when I step out of line hebrews Twelve, just giving you a glimpse of it. Our Heavenly Father will correct his children. We forget that that he’s up there taking care of matters. He’s not just sitting there saying, oh well, there he goes again.

[01:31:34] Just let him keep wondering. No, he’s going to correct his children. And if he doesn’t correct his children, it says we’re bastards and we are not his children. So don’t focus on so much on that person and that person sin, but on the power of God. I think a great example of that.

[01:31:53] If anybody could have lost salvation if anybody in Old Testament could have lost. Well, Peter, he denied Christ three times. Jesus said, if you deny me before men, I’ll deny you for the Father. Father. Well, Peter might have been trouble because.

[01:32:11] He did it three times, but Peter. Didn’T lose his salvation. Then Peter writes in two peter two verses, six through nine, he’s talking about Sodom and Gomorrah. And Lot. He says, and turning the cities of Sodom and Gomorrah into ashes, condemned them with an overthrow, making them an example.

[01:32:32] Unto those that after should live ungodly. And delivered just Lot vexed with a filthy conversation of the wicked. Now, he delivered Lot, you remember, in his two daughters.

[01:32:52] Daughters in law, I. Think is what it was. So it wasn’t just Lot singular. Just Lot means that he was just. In the eyes of God.

[01:33:02] Well, how do I know that? Keep reading for that righteous man. In God’s eyes, Lot was righteous, but. He was vexed with a filthy conversation of the wicked. And it says in the next part that righteous man dwelling among them in seeing and hearing, vexed his righteous soul from day to day with the unlawful deeds.

[01:33:30] If anybody could have lost their salvation. It should have been Lot. But God saw him as righteous. How? Because he believed God.

[01:33:41] Not by works of the law. He believed what God said. But he fell in sin. He didn’t lose his salvation. Look at verse nine of two, Peter.

[01:33:50] Two. For the Lord knoweth how to deliver. The Godly out of temptation and to. Reserve the unjust unto the day of. Judgment to be punished.

[01:34:03] God knows what’s going on. God is all powerful. God will correct his children. He will deliver them out of their place where they shouldn’t be is what. We see with Lot.

[01:34:15] God saw Lot as righteous. Lot didn’t lose his salvation. God kept him by his power. God kept him, and he delivered Lot. So I’ll tell you, anybody that wants to say you can lose your salvation, I say, Show me.

[01:34:33] There’s nowhere in Scripture you can take. Scripture out of context and try to. Twist it around and say it. But there’s nowhere in Scripture within context that anyone ever lost their salvation. What about Judas?

[01:34:47] Judas was never saved. I studied that years ago of if you look back through Judas, he never. Once called Jesus Lord. He always referred to him as good. Teacher, as rabbi, different things like that.

[01:35:02] But he was never Lord to Judas. He never professed him as his Lord and Savior. Judas was never saved to start with. So that’s another subject for another day. But no one ever has lost their salvation.

[01:35:19] Well, I hope my battery holds out here. I think I’m good. The rest of it’s a lot of just self explanatory. So to reject Christ leaves nothing but judgment. And listen to this here.

[01:35:31] It is a fearful thing verse 31, to fall in the hands of a. Living God, but call to remembrance the. Former days in which after you were illuminated you endured great fight of afflictions. See here the writer almost sounds like Paul writing here because it’s a lot of the same. He’s admonishing them and he sort of breaks off to that and he says.

[01:35:53] Guys, you’re going to continue doing these. Sacrifices and doing this stuff. He says, God’s going to take care of you. And believe me people, it’s a fearful thing to fall in the hands of a living God. God’s got this under control.

[01:36:08] You don’t have to go around pointing out everybody’s sins and telling they do this and they do that and they’ll try for a few days or weeks or months to do better and then they’ll fall right back into the same old addiction they had. That’s why you see that over and over and over. We understand that we rest in Christ and his finished work on the cross and being led by the Holy Spirit, presenting our bodies as a living sacrifice. To the Lord every day. Then he makes us and conforms us in the image of his dear Son.

[01:36:40] That’s a good study. That Romans chapter twelve by the way, too. And I look at that not so much as a command, but a way. To live the Christian life that we. Begin every day, presenting our body like.

[01:36:54] Isaiah did when he come before the. Lord and confessed that he was a man of unclean lips. And they took a coal from off the altar in heaven and touched Isaiah’s lips and cleansed his lips. And then God said, who will go. For me, who shall I send?

[01:37:13] And Isaiah says, here am I, Lord. Send me. See we understand that what we have. In Christ and all those things that. We have in Him and he cleanses of our sin.

[01:37:26] Then he gives us the abilities and the gifts and the talent, the things to serve Him and to go for Him. So anyway, I’ll move on. I got sort of sidetracked. Sorry about that. Hope I caught that rabbit.

[01:37:42] Yeah, I’m just plugging in my daughter. I got one while we’re worried about us. I may have to transfer let me just take a minute here. I’m going to to have transfer the power. Verse 33 partly wish you were made.

[01:38:00] A gazing stock both by reproaches I. Guess you can hear me good. Okay, good. Because I’m leaving this app and going to my Bible. I’m doing everything from my phone now.

[01:38:12] For reproaches and afflictions. Probably wish you could became companions of. Them that were of use for we had compassion of me in my bond. See that sounds a lot like Paul, doesn’t it? And took joyfully the spoiling of your goods knowing that in yourselves that you.

[01:38:29] Have in Heaven a better and enduring substance. I think what he’s telling them there. And why he’s telling that you remember. After the resurrection and these Jews were. Converting to Christianity, that they suffered a.

[01:38:46] Lot of were, as you saw, where Paul had imprisoned them and beat them and put them to death, they were suffering a lot of persecution and trials. And where Paul took up, you see, in two corinthians where he took up. Offerings to send back to Jerusalem for the poor. Because if they had converted to Christianity. They had a log or a list.

[01:39:10] There of who were Jews. And if you were on this list, you could get a job, you could. Do a lot of things, but if. You converted to Christianity, you were taken off the list. And so they became poor and they were suffering a lot of persecution because of Christ.

[01:39:27] And so some of them may have. Been tempted to go back to that. Judicial system even though they accepted Jesus as their Savior so they could be in good graces and keep their jobs. And it was just a lot going on there. And I think this is core to.

[01:39:45] What he’s dealing with here, all this. Suffering and in your bonds and that’s. Imprisonment, he says, don’t cast away the confidence, therefore cast not away, therefore the confidence which hath great repents of ward. All these trials we’re having here on. Earth are just for a time.

[01:40:10] They’re temporary, but eternal things is what matters. And that’s our great reward. For we have the need of patience that after you have done the will. Of God, you might receive the promise. So don’t continue to go back to this law.

[01:40:28] Don’t try to appease, for even though. Persecution is great. Don’T go back to. That system of sacrifices and things.

[01:40:41] For. Yet a little while. And he that shall come will come and will not tarry. Now, that is a promise of the return of Christ for his people, the return of Christ to set up his.

[01:41:00] I believe in the rapture. I don’t know how a lot of. You may not, but I believe in the Rapture where Christ meets us in the clouds. That’s not the second coming of Christ. The second coming of Christ, he touches down on the Mount of Olives and.

[01:41:16] Defeats the Antichrist and the false prophets. And all that, and then sets his millennial kingdom. And this is a promise that he’s going to come, and he will come and will not tarry. You will receive the promise of that. And he says, don’t draw back.

[01:41:31] The promises of God are good. He says, now the just shall live by faith. If any man draw back, my soul. Hath no pleasure in him. But we are not of them who draw back unto perdition, but of them.

[01:41:48] That believe to the saving of the soul. So again he gives us a glimpse. Here of what’s coming up next. The judge shall live by faith. Don’t keep doing the sacrificial system.

[01:42:03] Don’t doing these dead works. You’re saved by grace through faith. Live by grace through faith. Hold on to that. God’s promises are still true.

[01:42:13] He promised us, I will come and. I will bring you unto myself. I will return for you. And he’s saying, you can rest assured of this promise. Just be patient.

[01:42:25] Be steadfast in the ministry in which you are called, being washed in the blood of Jesus. So I think that’s all I had on that. My computer is still booting up and probably be booting up for the next 15 minutes. But anybody got any comments or anything? Any questions that you would like to add?

[01:42:48] I want to thank you all for being here. Good crowd again tonight. I’ve been watching the notes and trying to make sure I wasn’t missing something.

[01:43:00] Is all that pretty clear. Was it helpful to people? Sorry I had all the technical difficulties. I’ll try not do that anymore. You’re welcome.

[01:43:09] You’re welcome. Yes. She wrote down all the verses. Yeah. Good job.

[01:43:17] Thank you. Well you’re just on it there again. This recording will be in the depository under my name. Under the Hebrew study will be lesson number five.

[01:43:31] I hope this was a great help to you and maybe brings out more understanding of Hebrews. And we’re going to get in. Oh. I need to ask you all a question. I think it was easy to follow and straightforward.

[01:43:45] Thank you for your study. Thank you all for being here. Next week my wife and I will. Be celebrating 40 years of marriage anniversary. My bride and I, and we’re going on a cruise.

[01:43:59] So Saturday night I will be on a cruise ship and.

[01:44:07] I can get the wi fi and try to do it from there. Or we can take a week off. Or I can ask JD. If he would like to do it or somebody else. Y’all tell me what’s your what’s your pleasure?

[01:44:20] On.

[01:44:23] Know I would say the wi. Fi would be fine, but you’ve ever. Been on a cruise? The WiFi is not a lot to. Speak of your time with your wife on your anniversary.

[01:44:37] We can go a week and then pick up the following week when you all get back. Okay. That’d be all right with you all? That’s fine with me. But like I said JD could do it.

[01:44:50] We got 1112 and 13 and we’ll be done. But I’ll do whatever you all want to do, but if that’s all right agreeable there. But we’ll just take next week off. And I’ll see you when I get back. Guys, thank you again.

[01:45:09] We can talk about cruise and all that, but just want to make sure there’s no questions or anything. And I guess we need to close in prayer.

[01:45:20] Would anybody like to close us in prayer tonight? Don’t all jump at one time. Now you are bashful. All right, I will. All right.

[01:45:30] Thank you, Lord. If you follow Lord from above, we want to thank you for who you are. Thank you for our salvation. Thank you for this discord. Thank you for Pastor Kenny and his leadership to teach it.

[01:45:42] And we pray for our worship experiences tomorrow. And thank you for allowing us to meet in Christ. Let me pray. Amen. Amen.

[01:45:52] Thank you, sir. Now we can chat and whatever. I feel like we’ve officially closed out the study, so y’all hang around, we’ll. Talk fellowship, whatever you want to do.


[00:00:00] I guess we can get started and. Those who want to come in will. Come in and we’re getting close for chapter eleven and we’ll see how far. We can get through that tonight.

[00:00:17] Sounds good.

[00:00:22] Might give them a welcome in, I see. Clint.

[00:00:29] Tammy.

[00:00:33] Hello. How are you? Good, how are you? I think I’m doing good. Well, that’s good.

[00:00:42] Everybody’s joining in so. That’s great. Yeah.

[00:00:49] Give them a few minutes and I know we were off last week but anyway we’ll go ahead and I guess and get started. I’m sure there’ll be some more that come in. Proper pickles. I love that. I think that probably irritates Mike every time he sees your name.

[00:01:13] I don’t like pickles. You don’t like pickles either? No. Okay. Cucumbers are the worst thing to cucumber any.

[00:01:28] You can pickle anything else and it’ll be fine. But cucumbers are just disgusting.

[00:01:35] Yeah, I guess it eats their own.

[00:01:41] I like sweet pickles, dill pickles, no. Matter what you want to do with them. I like cucumbers, pickle, some jalapenos, any type of peppers, onions, garlic, anything is gas. Yeah. My grandfather used to eat pickled pigs.

[00:01:58] Feet that I never tried. I ain’t dealing with all that. Yeah. She’S in here. I guess we’ll get started.

[00:02:11] We got a good group in here. And we’re going to do chapter eleven and twelve. We’ll just see how far we get. I guess there’s a lot to unpack. In all of these verses and we’ll.

[00:02:27] Just see how far the Lord leads. Us. Based on if you have any questions or things you need to understand again, just feel free to put it. In the chat and I’ll try to. Get it or whatever.

[00:02:43] We’ll get that done. We’ll open our word of prayer and get started here. Father, we just thank you for the night. We thank you for the ones that. Have come to come together in fellowship.

[00:02:53] To study Your Word and we just thank you for your blessings to us for this week. And Lord, now as we study your. Word, we ask that you just reveal. Truth to us and help us to. See clearly the truth of your Word and apply it to our hearts and.

[00:03:08] To be doers of that Word. We just pray now that you just get all the honor and glory and praise out of everything that’s said and. Done in Jesus name I pray. Amen. All right.

[00:03:21] We are going as I said that those are just coming in. Going to try to cover chapter eleven and twelve tonight is kind of my goal. I kind of wanted to see if I could do 1112 and 13 but. The more I studied it the more I don’t know. We may not even make it through.

[00:03:42] Eleven but we’ll see. But we’ll just see how it goes and I don’t want to rush it. I want to be sure we understand. It and get a clear understanding. So up to this point we see.

[00:03:56] That chapters one through ten are very foundational in doctrine and establishing who we. Are in Christ and that he is our place of rest. We seen in chapter one that he is the Son of God. We see that he is God. He is eternal.

[00:04:18] He was there at the creation. He is the creator of all things. We’ve seen there in chapter one and two that he is above the angels, that he’s greater than Moses, he’s better than the Law. He introduced that Jesus is our high. Priest and he explained how he was.

[00:04:40] Our high priest after the order of Melchizedek. He compared Him to Melchizedek and these Jewish readers understood everything he was talking about. And as I said many times, some of the things that the writer would say about being greater than Moses and greater than angels and better than the Law would just make them rock back on their heels, so to speak. And you know, this is something here to listen to. What he’s saying here is hard for.

[00:05:14] Us to comprehend, seeing that they had done the sacrifices, they had done the Law, and Moses was their everything and it was God and then angels to them. These were very important points that this writer of Hebrews was making, that Jesus. Was greater and above all these things in fulfilling the Law. He was better than the Law. He provided a better covenant.

[00:05:48] He serves in a better temple or tabernacle, a heavenly tabernacle or a heavenly. Temple before the throne of God as. Our mediator between us and God. And we see that he is a better sacrifice. And then we concluded toward the end of chapter ten that he is the only sacrifice for sin.

[00:06:10] You reject what Jesus finished work and what he did on the cross. You reject that there is nothing else. Left to pay the sin debt. And we see that as we talked about in Hebrews 1026 up to this. Point, he’s been laying a lot of.

[00:06:34] Foundational statements for their understanding as he. Is convincing these Jewish readers to understand. All that they have in Christ and. To stop being Hebrews is what he’s telling them here. Stop doing the Law, stop doing these.

[00:06:55] Sacrifices, stop doing all those things. Jesus has completed it. We are complete in Him and we rest in so this was just a really, I guess, knowing church people and. Just people in general. We don’t take change very well at all.

[00:07:17] And this must have been hard, some. Of what has been said here must have been hard for these Jewish people. To see and to understand. But he makes it very clear to Him, and now he comes to chapter. Eleven and it almost seems like he.

[00:07:35] Just changes gears and says, okay, now we’ve laid all these fundamental things and. Now let’s talk about something else. Let’s talk about faith, let’s talk about love, let’s talk about hope. And it almost seems in the last. Three chapters that he kind of changes gears, which he’s actually not, I don’t believe it flows right in with the rest of Hebrews.

[00:07:58] Since Jesus has done all this since. He has completed all this and we. Are complete in Him, you could almost. Anticipate that salvation as he’s telling them. Salvation is only through Christ and not.

[00:08:17] By the law, not by the blood. Of lambs and rams and goats and. Bulls, but salvation is by faith alone in Christ alone. And you got to live by faith. So it’s almost like he’s anticipating their.

[00:08:36] Next question, as he did with he made the statement that Jesus is their high priest. He said, yeah, he is our high priest after the order of Melchizedek, no father, no mother, no Jewish genealogies, he. Was worshipped by our Father Abraham and paid a tithe. And so as Melchizedek was a priest forever, so Christ is our high priest forever. And that’s how he qualified.

[00:09:06] And he met them there anticipating their response to Him saying Jesus is a high priest. I almost look at the chapter 1112 and 13 as anticipating their response to, okay, now if the law is obsolete and ran into vanished away, as you. Said in chapter 813, how are we supposed to live? Now keep in mind, they have done. The law, they have done sacrifices and all these things for thousands of years.

[00:09:38] That’s all they’ve known. And the whole problem with the Hebrew, the Jewish readers that were reading this. Is they were wanting to go back. To that sacrificial system. There were the judaizers that went around saying, oh yeah, Jesus died on the cross for our sins and that’s all great, but you need to keep the law.

[00:10:01] They were mixing law and grace. And Paul talks about in all of. His Epistles, and I think we see it clearly in this one. You don’t mix law and grace. And so their question is, how do we live know if you’re going to.

[00:10:17] Take away our sacrificial system, if our high priest, we’re no longer to see Him and we no longer live under. The rule of the law, how should. We live this Christian life that you’re talking about? How do we do this? And he answered this first of all.

[00:10:34] In chapter eleven, we walk by faith, not by the law. It is just purely by faith in Christ and his finished work on the cross. We all know Ephesians two, eight and. Nine, for by grace are you saved. Through faith, not of yourselves.

[00:10:52] It is a gift of God, not. Of works, lest any man should boast. And these Jewish listeners were going back. As it says in Hebrew six one, to their dead works, those works that do not produce anything, they are dead works. This sacrificial system, it was all pointing to Christ.

[00:11:14] It was all about Christ. So he starts off and tells them. In chapter eleven to walk by faith. Chapter twelve, he says, you keep your. Hope or you maintain that faith in.

[00:11:28] Christ, in Jesus, not the law. And then chapter 13, he says, and let the love of Christ flow through you. This is how you live the Christian. Life, apart from the law, apart from the sacrificial system. Remember when we talked about that, the prophecy that God told that I will.

[00:11:52] Write my laws on their hearts and on their minds, we are transitioning. The law was an outward expression. What he’s now going to go over with in Hebrews 1112 and 13 is what? A change of an inward, a new creation to be born again, that lives by faith and our hope is in Christ. And as we do that, the love of Christ flows through us.

[00:12:18] And so that’s what the next three chapters are about.

[00:12:24] The writer gives practical or teaching on how they or we should live our Christian lives. As I said, it’s no longer an outward expression by doing works of the sacrifice and the law, but an inward. Change, an inward faith that expresses an. Outward expression that others can see. So I want to lay the foundation.

[00:12:55] For this because it’s important that we understand this, because there’s a lot of. People out there that say, well, we’re. Saved by grace alone, through faith alone in Christ alone. And that is a true statement. But then there also needs to go along with that.

[00:13:13] There ought to be something that reveals that. And then when you, as soon as you say that, people say, oh, you’re talking about a works based salvation. I am in no way teaching a works based salvation. But it’s very clear in Scripture that. Salvation, that good works accompany our salvation.

[00:13:33] If you go to Ephesians two eight. Nine, you see that everybody wants to. Read Ephesians 284, by grace are you saved through faith. And then they stop there. But they forget ten is not of.

[00:13:50] Works, lest any man should boast from verse nine, but verse ten, for we are his workmanship created in Christ Jesus. We are born again in Christ unto. Good works which God hath before ordained. That we should walk in them. So with our salvation there ought to be fruits of that salvation that show what we believe and what is in our heart, what our faith is in.

[00:14:20] There are some people that want to. Say that. The book of Hebrews and. James do not apply to us at all. They were written to the Hebrews.

[00:14:31] And if you look at the first. Verse of James one, it says to. The twelve tribes scattered abroad, so it. Doesn’T apply to us. You can’t get that.

[00:14:43] And if you do that, if you. Throw out these two books and you. Miss a very valuable understanding of who. We are in Christ, what he’s done for us. You miss the understanding of what James is saying when he says faith without works is dead.

[00:15:03] That book trips up a lot of people into thinking that you have to do something or your faith is in vain. You have to do something or it’s not real faith. And that’s not what James is saying at all. That’s not what he’s saying here in chapter eleven. And I think James and chapter eleven of Hebrews goes together very well.

[00:15:26] So. We’Ll just dive into it and. See how far we get. He’s saying there is a better way. No longer the law, no longer sacrifices, no longer temple worship.

[00:15:41] There’s a better way. Not those things that you’ve seen and smelled and done these outward things for so many years. The better way is by faith in Christ alone. So it’s by our faith. And now he goes to explain that.

[00:15:59] And then he gives examples of that, and we’re going to look at several. Of them to get an understanding of what he is saying here.

[00:16:10] So it says in verse one. Now I’m reading out the ESV for. Any that want to follow along with that verse one. Now, faith is the assurance of things. Hoped for, the conviction of things not seen.

[00:16:26] So first of all, we want to. Say that faith is not the assurance. Of what we want or what we. Hope for or what we wish for, but what God tells us. Our faith or our assurance of our hope through faith is in what God.

[00:16:45] Says, what he promises, not what I dream up and want to be. So the King James says, now, faith. Is the substance of things hoped for. The evidence of things not I. Again, and please don’t misunderstand me, I.

[00:17:02] Am not teaching a works based salvation. And I know a lot of people. Might want to think that I am. Or say that I am. I absolutely do not believe in that.

[00:17:15] But if you look at this, I. Think this goes hand in hand with what James is trying to tell us. In his book, the whole Book of. James, by the way. And I’ll try to trace this rabbit and not go too far with it.

[00:17:32] There’s sound. Can you not hear me?

[00:17:40] It sounds clear on my end. Okay, thank you. Okay. I just saw a message there sound. And I didn’t know what that meant.

[00:17:51] All right, so now faith, our faith. Is in what God tells us. It’s the evidence of things not seen. And I’ll go back. What James was saying was, you can say you have faith, but if there’s.

[00:18:08] No evidence of it.

[00:18:12] What good is your faith? And the whole book of James is about Christian conduct. He’s writing to them. And these churches that were scattered abroad.

[00:18:25] Were doing things they were catering to. The rich they weren’t doing.

[00:18:35] I don’t know. There’s stuff coming up on my phone. I’m not sure what it wants me to connect to a WiFi. Just ignore the chat, okay, until you’re ready for questions. Ignore the chat.

[00:18:49] Okay. All right, well, I just want to. Be sure you’re hearing me and I’m. Not just sitting here talking, but the whole book. If I can’t hear you, I’ll cut you off.

[00:18:58] I’ll try to stop you verbally if we can’t hear you. Okay. Thank you. You’re welcome. So the whole Book of James is.

[00:19:06] About our Christian conduct. Not conduct for salvation, but our conduct as Christians. We shouldn’t be catering to the lost. We ought to feed the poor. We ought to do good to those who are without.

[00:19:19] These are things that we ought to be doing as Christians because of the faith that we have, because of our salvation. We love like Christ, we give like Christ. We consider everyone equally in Christ. And the whole book of James is about Christian conduct. And there’s people that would argue that.

[00:19:41] But I would just say they need. To go back and study the Book of James if you don’t understand that. But these go hand in hand, like. I said, in our faith that we have because of our salvation, because I. Have for by grace are you saved through faith?

[00:19:57] God said that I’m a sinner, I confess. Or that means I agree with Him. That I am a sinner and that. I need a Savior. And I’ve trusted His Son as my personal savior, his finished work on the cross.

[00:20:12] I am saved. And because of that, now I am a new creation with a new way of thinking. I look at the world differently now. My whole outlook on life changes because of the faith that I have in. What God said about me and his.

[00:20:32] Son and the Holy Spirit coming to. Indwell mean it’s a lot like people have know they grow up and they. Get older, whatever, and they get married and their perspective on life changes a little bit. And then I know my son told me when he had his first son. He said, life is just altogether different now.

[00:20:54] I see things differently that I never even thought of before. I used to just wander through life and hope for the best and I really didn’t care either way. But now I have a son, I. Feel like I need to be here for him. I need to take care of him.

[00:21:11] His whole perspective of life changed. That is the way it is when we become a new creation in Christ. Just maybe a poor example, but our whole way of thinking about life changes. When we look at it through the. Eyes of our Savior.

[00:21:28] And because of that, we act differently, we talk differently, we do things differently. Because of what we are now. Not to get salvation, but because of our salvation.

[00:21:43] We exercise faith every day.

[00:21:49] Excuse me, I had to get a drink of water. We exercise faith every day. As I told you all, we got. On a cruise ship and went on a cruise. Well, I never even other than the picture on a wall.

[00:22:02] I saw that there was a captain. Guy there, and I heard his voice. Over the loudspeaker but never met the man, had no idea who the man was. But yet I got on his ship. And he carted me thousands of miles.

[00:22:16] Through the Atlantic Ocean on a cruise. I put my faith in Him, that. He knew what he was doing and. Would get me to the destination I. Was told I would go to.

[00:22:27] So I put faith in that captain. Whom I never met. We didn’t really do anything to get. To that destination other than just say. I accept the invitation.

[00:22:41] Of course I paid my money and. All that stuff too. But I got on the ship and. I said, okay, Captain, you’re in charge. What do I need to do?

[00:22:50] Well, you need to go to your mustard station, you need to do this. We need to do that. And they would give us instructions and directions on safety and things going on as we’re on the cruise. But that’s all I did, is follow. The directions of the captain, and it was his job to get me to.

[00:23:07] The destination that he had promised. It’s the same with us. God tells us in his word who he is. Now, unlike the captain, I get to have more of an intimate relationship with. Him because of Jesus and his shed.

[00:23:22] Blood and through salvation, I rest in Christ. As we rested in that ship and enjoyed our vacation, not worried about what was going on, the captain was in control. That’s the way I think us as. Christians ought to do our faith in. God, in his promises, we rest in Him.

[00:23:44] We just listen to his instructions of what he wants us to do, and we do it because we believe his promises. We believe that he said, if you believe on My Son, whosoever believes in Him shall have everlasting life, I have faith and full assurance that what God said is true. He’s going to get me to that. Destination of eternal life. Not me.

[00:24:10] I can’t do it. He did it through His Son on the cross. So it is, I guess we see. A perfect example of faith in our Savior. He said when he’s in the garden memory, he prayed, father, if it be any way, let this cup pass for me.

[00:24:37] Now you got to wonder. Thank goodness Jesus surrendered to the will. Of the Father and put his full faith into the will of the Father. Or else he would have been delivered. Because every prayer that Jesus asked while he was there on Earth, god answered.

[00:24:53] Perfectly, but he immediately said, nevertheless, not my will, but Your will be done. He put full faith and assurance into. The will of the Father. That’s a perfect example to us on. How we should live by faith.

[00:25:14] Our faith, and then to understand faith here. Jesus says that if you had faith. Of a mustard seed, you could say this mountain be moved and it would be moved. And a lot of people go around saying, well, I wish I had the faith of Miss So and So, or I had your faith, your type of faith. And you hear people say, oh, they.

[00:25:35] Got such a great faith. Well, I don’t think it’s so much. A great faith, but it’s a great. God whom we put our faith in.

[00:25:47] It’s not so much how strong your faith is, but who your faith is placed in. And I heard a long time ago, one of my college professors, he gave. The example of faith. It’d be like one of you come. Up to my house and you had this brand new sports car that was.

[00:26:06] Just super fast, and you said, come. On, let’s go for a ride. And we get in and buckle up and head down the road and boy. You’Re shifting through the gears and setting me back in my seat and boy, it’s just awesome feeling. And I just holler out, wow, what a transmission.

[00:26:24] See, you would look at me like I was crazy. What do you mean, transmission? Do you feel the power of that. Engine, the control of the car? And you’re talking about the transmission.

[00:26:36] See, the transmission only connects the power of the engine to the wheels for action. That is faith. The faith is just the transmission. The power is God. And by our faith in God and what he says we do produces action.

[00:26:57] Does that make sense? Does that help make that go a. Little bit clear for some of you. That it’s not so much the faith. But who we place our faith and.

[00:27:06] Trust in, that.

[00:27:10] Makes the power or makes the actions come about. And we’ll see that in these next few verses. So there’s verse one, and I’ve only. Spent 27 minutes on that one. So like I said, I don’t know.

[00:27:22] That we’ll get through all this tonight. Because there’s a lot to unpack. But verse one now, faith is the. Assurance of things hoped for. We hope for eternal things, we hope.

[00:27:35] For God’s promises, and it’s the conviction. Of things that we haven’t even seen. We don’t see those things. And he goes on to give more illustration of that. He says, for by it the people of old receive commendation.

[00:27:55] I keep wanting to say condemnation, but it’s commendation. They were commended for that. They were commended for that. And I look at that and I actually believe that being commended for that was their peers, the ones that said. Wow, you must really love Lord.

[00:28:19] You really trust the Lord even though you’ve never seen him. As Job says, I know my redeemer liveth and I will stand with him in the last days. I know Chris is doing a study on Job and it great example of faith there that I know my redeemer lives even though he’s never seen him. Job acknowledged that that’s faith. And we’ll give a list of all the go through each of those in.

[00:28:50] A few minutes, of those who portrayed. That faith that others saw.

[00:28:57] And the reason I think it was others that saw it is because just. As the verse that says Abraham believed. God and it was countered to him for righteousness, noah found God, found grace in God’s sight before he ever built the ark, before he had to have. Faith to do that. So I believe the commendation that he’s.

[00:29:26] Talking about is of the patriarchs received. As they walked through their lives of faith. And he’s telling these Jewish readers this here that it’s not the dead works. It’S not the temple worship. It’s not all those things that show how much faith you have in God.

[00:29:46] It’s by the deeds, those things you do over things you can’t see. Now we see it’s in your heart that’s coming out, not an outward expression. Just keep that in mind. As he went back to, I think, verse eight, chapter eight and nine, he began to talk about more of an. Inward change of them than an external expression of it.

[00:30:10] And he’s really getting deeper into what. Is inwardly in us, comes out of us. Jesus said, out of the abundance of. The heart, the mouth speaketh. Where your treasure is, there your heart will be also.

[00:30:25] So it’s an inward thing. As Jesus always looked at the ones. That come to him, he saw. The scripture tells us that God looks on the inward of man, and man. Looks on the outward of a man.

[00:30:41] So God always sees the heart, the condition of the heart. So they received this by faith. We understand that the universe was created. By the word of God. So that what is seen was not made out.

[00:30:58] Of things that are visible. Were any of us there when God created the heaven and the earth? Absolutely not. But it was spoken by God to come into existence. Just by his words, the creation came together.

[00:31:16] Now, how did that work? You tell me. I don’t know. God asked Job the same question where. Were you when I laid the foundations of the world?

[00:31:28] Can you tell me? And I believe God has been a little bit sarcastic with Job there. Who are you that speaks without wisdom? You weren’t there. You haven’t seen this.

[00:31:40] But by faith, God said this, that. He spoke the world into existence. We read in Genesis, and by faith we believe that even though we didn’t see it, by faith, we know we. Have all these different makeups of our body. And we are just now getting to where we can see what the atoms.

[00:32:03] Are and electrons and neutrons and all. Those different things, protons, and start to have a grasp of that, of how we’re made up. But years ago, we couldn’t even see that. But we believed. We’re here, and we believe that God created us.

[00:32:24] So by faith, God’s word says it. And we believe it. We believe what God said about creation. By faith, abel offered to God a. More acceptable sacrifice than Cain, though, which he was commended as righteous.

[00:32:43] God commended him by accepting his gift. And through his faith, though he died, he still speaks. You read about this in Genesis four. We understand, and there are several references. To Cain and Abel.

[00:33:00] And Abel’s sacrifice. Abel offered a sacrifice of innocent blood.

[00:33:09] For a sacrifice by faith, believing that. God would accept it. Now, Cain offered a sacrifice based on his labor. Cain was a gardener, and he raised these vegetables and fruits and whatever else. And Cain offered this because of what he had done through his works.

[00:33:36] And that’s just clear here. We’re not saved.

[00:33:43] By works. Cain shows this. It was the condition of the heart. That the result of his labor. He offered something to God, whereas Abel offered innocent blood.

[00:33:55] Just believing that God would accept a blood sacrifice. I don’t know for sure, but I. Believe, based on what you see, that Noah offered sacrifices and Abel offered a sacrifice. And you say Abraham offered sacrifice. Somewhere along the line, God made it clear to man that only through the shedding of blood would the payment of.

[00:34:23] Sin be, and that it had to. Be through a sacrificial system. Like I’ve told you all before, I believe it goes all the way back to the Adam and Eve. When they tried to cover their sins with the fig leaves, god said, no, that’s not going to do. A ram had to die.

[00:34:42] An animal had to die, and he took the skin of that animal and covered their nakedness or covered their sin. Through the shedding of blood. So it was clear, even all the. Way back to, I believe, Genesis, that there would have to be a sacrifice for the sins of the world, a blood sacrifice for the sins of the world. So Abel offered this sacrifice by faith.

[00:35:11] To God, where Cain offered it as a result of his labor. We all know that story and how. That went and how we see Cain’s. Heart was hardened and bitter toward his brother because God accepted that. But it was, again, the condition of the heart.

[00:35:30] Abel’s heart was by faith, Cain’s was not. And Cain was bitter and killed his brother. So we’ll go into verse five. By faith, enoch was taken up so that he could not see death. He was not found because God had taken him.

[00:35:49] Now, before he was taken, he was commended as having pleased God. He pleased God by his faith. God saw him as righteous. And we know the story of Enoch, that he walked with God and was no more. He was translated up, as they say.

[00:36:10] He was carried into heaven.

[00:36:16] Because of his walk with the Lord and his. Closeness with the Lord. By faith. Now he gets into that that it. Pleased God, having pleased God.

[00:36:29] And without faith, it’s impossible to please God. So we know that Enoch had faith. In the promises of God, that he would provide a sacrifice. By faith, Enoch walked with God. By faith, he did the things that.

[00:36:47] God asked Him to do. He was found righteous in the eyes. Of God because of his faith. So without faith, it’s impossible to please God. And we’re good with that part.

[00:36:58] If anyone comes to Him, we must. Believe that he exists or that he is. He is all that he says he is, that he did send His Son. And we all are good with this, but okay, by faith, I’m saved by faith. That’s it.

[00:37:13] And he is the rewarder of those who earnestly seek Him.

[00:37:20] He’s explaining what faith is. This is faith. He is all that I need. Without this faith, without acknowledging that has is all that I need. You remember when Moses asked Him, who shall I say sent me?

[00:37:38] And he says, I am that I am. In other words, I am what you need. I am all things. I am everlasting. I am that I am.

[00:37:53] Have you seen God? No. Do you believe what he says in his word? Yes. That’s faith.

[00:38:02] You put your faith in God, and he is a rewarder of them that. Diligently seek Him, the rewarder of those who seek that relationship with Him. And I think once we’re saved, this is a characteristic of a person who is born again and has been saved, is they diligently seek Him. They have a desire to know Him. More, to have that relationship that he.

[00:38:33] Wants or restored for us through Christ on the cross, he restored the relationship. That he once wanted. When he created Adam and Eve, he wanted to walk in the cool of the garden and just have fellowship and have this relationship with Him. But then it was all changed because of sin. Christ restored that relationship, and that’s what.

[00:38:56] He wants, and so we seek that relationship with Him. I don’t know of a better explanation. Maybe you do, but I’m married. We had a wedding day, and we got married. We lived together, and that’s awesome.

[00:39:16] That’s great. But unfortunately, a lot of people who. Are married, that’s all they ever see. That’s all they ever do. Okay, I’m married.

[00:39:24] I got a piece of paper, and I got to live with her now. The rest of my life. And that’s just the way it is. I’ll go to my job, she goes to her job. Or she takes care of the kids.

[00:39:33] And I take care of the family’s needs, and I work my fingers to the bones. And they nearly don’t ever have that. Meaningful relationship that they need with one. Another because they don’t earnestly seek to know one another to have that relationship. The joy of marriage is to understand that person that God has given you and to love them unconditionally and accept.

[00:40:02] Them for who they are because you. Know who they are because not just because you live with them or just because you’re married to them, but because you’ve earnestly seek to know them. And I think that’s what God is saying here. You are saved for a relationship, and. In that relationship is the reward of it.

[00:40:27] The reward of a marriage is to. Have that relationship that is bound by love. As we get to know one another. More and more, I enjoy being with my wife. Not always.

[00:40:43] She’s sitting right over there, and she. Doesn’T always enjoy being with me. I can be contrary, too. But we have learned after 40 years of loving one another and getting to. Know one another, we begin to think like each other, and we can finish.

[00:41:01] Our sentences for each other. I know what she’s thinking. She knows what I am thinking, and. We just have that relationship. I believe that’s what he’s talking about.

[00:41:10] Here the reward of those who earnestly. Seek Him to know God intimately, to. Know what he expects, to know how. He works, to know that he loves. Me unconditionally and accepts me for who I am.

[00:41:26] If I don’t have that faith in Him, it’s impossible to please Him. It’s impossible to have that relationship that he desires for us.

[00:41:38] I don’t know if there’s any questions or comments or anything. Just throw them in there up to this point. But if not, we’ll keep moving. Let me get a drink of water here.

[00:41:52] So, verse seven. By faith, Noah by faith, Noah, being. Warned by God concerning events as yet unseen in reverent fear, constructed an ark. For the saving of his household. By this, he commended the world and became the heir of righteousness that comes.

[00:42:19] By faith, Noah found let me point this out again. Noah found grace in the eyes of. God before he built the ark. That is a picture of our salvation, god’s grace. By faith and we believe God.

[00:42:39] His grace is given to us through His Son. We accept His Son as our personal savior. That is salvation. Now, with salvation now, we’ve experienced that grace of God. As Noah had experienced God’s grace, god.

[00:42:56] Gave him something else. That I want you to build an ark. I’m going to judge the world. Man is evil continually. And I always think of the story.

[00:43:06] I don’t know if y’all ever knew Bill Cosby when he did the no in the ark thing. This was pretty comical back in the day. But Noah, I want you to build an ark. Right? What’s an ark?

[00:43:20] Noah had no idea before this time, it really hadn’t even rained on the. Earth, from what we know. What’s rain? What’s all this? God is telling him, build something that I want you to float around in.

[00:43:31] Water that Noah had never seen. But by faith Noah said, believed god, and he built the ark. It’s interesting, too, that he built this. Ark, and he built all the room. For them to stay.

[00:43:46] And it says here, in Reverent Fear constructed the ark for the saving of his household. This was 20 years before his first. Child was born when he began to. Build this ark, he was preparing rooms in that ark for children that he. Didn’T even have, for daughters, in laws.

[00:44:04] That he didn’t even have. By faith, Noah built this ark. So Noah found grace in the eyes of the Lord, and so Noah believed God, and by faith, Noah built the ark. Goes back to what I’m talking about. In James.

[00:44:24] We have faith in God. We’ve trust him. We are saved. Now we do. Now we do those things.

[00:44:30] And I think you see this as. We go through these lists of people that their faith in what God said and believe in what he says, they acted upon those things. Maybe another example is going back to. My how many years did it take. To build the art?

[00:44:50] And a lot of people see that now. Good question. It says in there that the number of man is 120 years. And a lot of people think, well. That’S when people stopped living so long and their maximum age was 120 years.

[00:45:07] I personally believe God was telling Noah, you’ve got 120 years to build the. Ark before I send judgment. So I’m thinking somewhere around 120 years. That it took Him to build this massive ark.

[00:45:26] Anyway, that’s just my take on it. Now, by faith, well, I was going to go back to the example of my marriage. We get married, and I’ve got my. Marriage license, and we’ve got our nice. Little house and two cars and a.

[00:45:46] Cat and a dog and all that stuff. But if I never talk to my wife, if I never do anything for. Her, if I never show any affection toward her, if I never go to the store for her and get things. For her, do I really love her? Is that a good expression of my.

[00:46:06] Love for her if I never have anything to do with her other than a marriage certificate? Maybe a bad example again, but I believe it goes along with God now that I am saved, because I love. Him, because I understand the grace that. He has shown me. I want to serve him.

[00:46:27] I want to please Him because of my faith. I believe what he says will come true if I do those things. So our actions or our works, a result of our salvation, not the requirement for salvation. So by faith, Abraham obeyed when he was called. Let me back up just a minute and give you a little something here, too.

[00:46:56] I don’t know how a lot of you feel, and I am a pretribulation. Believe in pre tribulation, but just to. Throw this in and no extra charge for it. When you go back to verse five, the verse Enoch was translated and taken up into heaven. And then we see Noah, and a.

[00:47:14] Lot of people say, well, see, Noah. Was put in the ark and went through the judgment on the earth. And, yeah, we’re going through the Tribulation, and they use that as their basis for support. But if you understand in the rest of scripture and what he says in the prophecies and revelation and other things. Enoch is a picture of the church.

[00:47:38] He was translated up. He was taken to heaven before God’s. Judgment was placed upon the earth. So to me, Enoch is a picture of the church. You see that in several places in Scripture.

[00:47:53] When God destroyed Sodom and Gomorrah, lot a righteous man, god took him out of Sodom and Gomorrah before he cast judgment. God always pulls his people out before judgment. Now, Israel went through some discipline times. Where God had to punish them for. Their sins, and they went through those times for sure.

[00:48:17] But when God was punishing evil man, he always pulled the righteous out. And we see that here with Enoch. He was brought up into heaven. He walked with God and was no more. I think that’s a picture of the Rapture.

[00:48:33] Now then you say, well, what is Noah in the ark? I believe Noah in the ark is a picture of Israel, the nation of. Israel, as they go through the Tribulation, and God keeps them and takes care of them. Even in this Tribulation, god keeps them. From harm in the ark.

[00:48:54] So to me, that is a picture. Well, way back in Genesis of the. End times, of the Rapture of the Church of Israel going through the Tribulation under the protection of God in this.

[00:49:10] So Noah would be Israel, enoch would. Be the church before God’s cast judgment on the earth. And that’s a whole nother study, but I just wanted to bring that out. And a lot of people ask about. The verse in Second Peter that talks.

[00:49:25] About they were saved by water. So oh, yeah, you got to be. Baptized to be saved. The water didn’t save anybody. The water destroyed everybody.

[00:49:34] The ark is actually what saved people. The ark is what saved Noah, not the water. And the ark is a picture of Christ. Noah was placed into the ark and. Was saved from the destruction.

[00:49:52] We are placed in Christ and we. Are saved from the wrath of God.

[00:50:01] Would the Passover be something to elaborate on that a little bit for me? Meaning like the Passover, because he saved the Israelites from the angel of death, taking the first born with the lamb over those things. So would that fall into he saves his righteous over judgment there, too? Yeah. Or is that going into something different?

[00:50:30] I think it’s going into something different because Egypt was a place of bondage, a place of slavery that they were. In and God delivered them from that. To give them to the Promised Land. I don’t know if you were I. Touched on this back in our earlier.

[00:50:45] Studies, and any of you are here just tonight, that all these are recorded. And placed in the library and oh, wow. Why can’t I never think of the word? What you call that? The depository.

[00:51:00] And you can hear them, they’re video or not video, but audio recorded. But anyway, Egypt was a place of bondage for Israel, and the Passover was. A picture of Christ. When I see the blood, I will pass over you. Blood was shed, I think, in Egypt when they did the Passover.

[00:51:21] That was the place of salvation. They left the bondage of sin. As we leave the bondage of sin no longer under the bondage of sin, we are freed in Christ through his. Blood on the cross. Cross the Red Sea and shut up, never to return no more.

[00:51:40] Again, I believe is a perfect picture of we cannot lose your salvation. You are saved by the blood in Egypt. You cross the Red Sea, never to return no more. And the Promised Land is not heaven, but is the victorious Christian life that we live here on earth. So that’s sort of what I look at, the Passover.

[00:52:00] Jesus is our passover lamb. This was all a type of Christ. To come in the Passover. So I think that’s kind of a different thing. But thank you for your question.

[00:52:14] I like when I get questions. Honestly, I feel like I can do. Better when I think people are listening or I know people are asking questions. And want to thinking about these things. So I hope that cleared it up for you.

[00:52:30] By faith, Abraham now obeyed when he. Was called to go out to a. Place that he was to receive as an inheritance. And he went out not knowing where he was going. Yep, that’s me.

[00:52:47] Every day I don’t have now I’m. Retired, I feel like every day I. Get up and wonder which way I’m supposed to be going. But Abraham went out in search of a city, it goes on to say, but he was traveling looking for a city, not knowing where he’s going. By faith, he obeyed God.

[00:53:08] God said, I promise you a nation as many as the sands of the sea or the stars in the sky, and I’m going to give you a promised land. Abraham went out looking for that, not know, left all that he had where he was at the name of his town. Slipped my mind right now. Ure, I think he left there in. All the comfort and luxury of the city, and he went out seeking what.

[00:53:38] God had promised him. He was to go out to the Promised Land. This is Genesis twelve one through four, and we can read about that. So by faith he went to live in a land of promise as in a foreign land, living in tents with. Isaac and Jacob heirs with him of the same promise.

[00:54:01] So Isaac and Jacob were the promised. Sons, were the promised grandsons to Abraham, that God promised him that a nation would be born and they would live in this promised land. And so Abraham went out looking for that, and he traveled intense temporary dwellings. He knew this wasn’t his permanent place of living. He was in search of a city, verse ten, for he was looking forward.

[00:54:35] To the city that has foundations, whose. Designer and builder is God. Now, that puts a little twist on it there. Whose designer and builder is God. You could say that the promised land.

[00:54:50] Was a land that God gave them. He tells that the land that I swear by your fathers that I will give you. They did nothing to take control of this land. But I also think this is a future looking for, too, a city, an. Eternal city, the city maybe we see in Revelation 21 of the New Jerusalem.

[00:55:17] Coming down for heaven. Did he fully understand? Was he like Job, which they say Job was written about the time of Abraham was. He knew that his redeemer liveth and that he would stand with him in the last day. Was he looking not only for a promised land, but an eternal city to be with God forever?

[00:55:44] So this may be two different schools. Of thought in verse ten, but regardless what the thing is, here is Abraham went. He obeyed by faith. He took his son, living in a temporary dwelling place, knowing that this was. Not his home, where he was at.

[00:56:02] He was looking for the home that God would give, that God would provide. So by faith, Sarah herself received power to conceive, even when she was past. The age, since she considered him faithful, who had promised. Now, this is interesting, too, here. Remember when God told Abraham that he was going to have a son and Sarah was in the other room of the tent, and she just sort of laughed?

[00:56:29] Yeah, right. I’m well beyond age of childbearing age, and I don’t know how this is going to happen, asking, Why did you. Laugh when I told Abraham, oh, she denied. I didn’t laugh. Regardless of what Abraham or Sarah’s unbelief at the time, she did believe.

[00:56:52] God did believe his promise, and by that promise. Conceived a son and had Isaac. Did she go through some difficulties of her belief? Absolutely. Remember, she offered Hagar to Abraham, and he had Ishmael, and, boy, that caused a whole lot of problems, even to this day.

[00:57:14] But Sarah did believe. It says by faith, she believed. I think she finally got the picture. And it isn’t good to know that even in our unbelief, even in our lack of faith, in our inadequacies, a. Lot of times we say we have.

[00:57:36] Faith and God tells us to do. Something, and, well, I need to help. Him out like Sarah and Abraham did. Because I’m well beyond years. Surely God needs some help in this situation.

[00:57:46] And even regardless of that her lack of faith or not of unbelief there God looked beyond that. I will see your remember your sin. No more and he still blessed her. I want you to know each one. Of these to me almost has a.

[00:58:06] Powerful sermon in her, didn’t that God. Does not hold those things against us. He’s going to perform his goodwill and his pleasure regardless of our weaknesses. And he will bless those who seek Him diligently and put our faith and trust in Him.

[00:58:30] So therefore verse twelve therefore for by. One man and in him as good as dead were born descendants, as many. As the stars of heaven, as many as the innumerable grains of sand of the seashore. He’s talking about through Abraham and Sarah. By this man as good as dead, near death.

[00:58:52] He was very old man, yet he had a child. And then he had Isaac. And through Isaac he had Jacob and Jacob had the twelve sons. And through that the nation was born of hundreds of thousands. And then even in that is the.

[00:59:11] Future promises of us. We are part of the promised seed of Abraham, that through that bloodline that. God promised Abraham, the son of God, would come and die for the sins. Of the there’s a that can open up. And like I said, each one of.

[00:59:33] These two or three verses you probably could talk for an hour and a half, 2 hours on each one to really cover all that’s in there. But we are even part of that. Seed that he talked about, the many stars of heaven and the numeral grains of the sands of the seashore, this was the promise to Abraham that Christ would come to die for the sins of the world, to be part of. That family of God. He says in verse 13 these all.

[01:00:02] Died in faith, not having received things promised, but having seen them and greeted them from afar and having acknowledged that. They were strangers and exiles on earth. Now this goes back to me, to verse ten. He may have looked for a promised. Land, but he also acknowledged, he also agreed in his heart through faith that.

[01:00:31] God would be promised him eternal life, that we are strangers here on earth. This place is not our home. Heaven is our home. There are many songs that talk about. That jesus tells us not to seek.

[01:00:46] Ye first the kingdom of God and his righteousness. All these things shall be added to, not to put our mind on earthly things, but on heavenly things. We as Christians by faith should be. Constantly thinking of the eternal what is. Going to happen for eternity, this life.

[01:01:07] The older I get, the shorter I. Realize how short life is. And heaven is for eternity. And we do so much here on. Earth trying to make it a home.

[01:01:19] And trying to do this and trying to do that, when reality is eternity is a whole lot longer. What are we doing to prepare for that? What are we doing to tell others about that? Because this is not our home. Heaven is our home.

[01:01:33] And I believe these all died in. Faith that heaven was not their home. That they were looking for an earthly home. For people who speak thus, make it clear that they are speaking of a homeland. So let me back up here to that not receiving the things promised.

[01:01:59] Abraham believed God, and it was counterintended righteousness. Noah found grace in the eyes of God. All these people found all these different things. And what is the promise they didn’t receive? It wasn’t eternal life, because we know.

[01:02:14] That they have eternal life, but the. Promise of a Savior, the promise to see the Savior. We see in Luke where the prophet. And the prophetess just said, just let me live to see the Messiah. They just wanted to see the Messiah come, the Promised One, to come to die for the sins of the world.

[01:02:38] And this is the promise that is saying they didn’t receive to see the promise of the Savior, to experience the indwelling of the Holy Spirit of all people. Remember the Old Testament? The Holy Spirit would come and go. On different people, but at Pentecost, he. Came and indwelt each and every one.

[01:02:57] Of us who believe. So they didn’t experience that promise, but. They still believed, believe God and his. Promises that he would provide a sacrifice. I’ll get to that in just a minute.

[01:03:12] Get it too far ahead of myself. We’re about an hour into it. Any thoughts or comments on verse 14? I’m an hour into the first chapter. That’s what I told.

[01:03:23] I didn’t know how far we would. Get tonight, but I wanted just to. Be clear and sort of help you. See that there’s so much in Scripture that points to all these verses.

[01:03:35] So. Verse 14 for people who speak. Thus, make it clear that they are seeking a homeland. Speak what they acknowledge, that they are strangers here on earth. We’re looking for a home.

[01:03:59] Oh, Lord, don’t you know this world is not my home? I’m just a passing through that old song. Great song. And that’s a great statement then. I don’t like it when it says, if heaven is not my home, then.

[01:04:10] Lord, I don’t know what I’m going to do. Well, I guess I understand that. And I hear a lot of people say that. But John 513 tells us that we may know that we have eternal life. I know heaven is my home.

[01:04:25] I don’t have to wonder if it’s my home. I’m looking for a heavenly home. And they make it very clear that. This earth, this old, troubled earth with all of its sin and its wars and its hardships and all these difficulties. This is not my home.

[01:04:43] I’m just passing through. I’m in a temporary dwellings. But my eternal dwelling is in Heaven with my Savior. So we make it clear as Christians that this isn’t my home. This isn’t what I’m looking for, but.

[01:05:00] Heaven is my home. Philippians 313 through 14 says brother, and I count myself to apprehend, to have apprehended. This is Paul speaking. But this one thing I do, forgetting those things which are behind, reaching forth into those things which are before, he’s reaching for Heaven. He’s reaching for that heavenly calling.

[01:05:24] He’s not worried about the past. He can’t change the a. Well, there’s a message right there. You wondering just Satan beating you up about your past and how terrible you’ve. Done put all those things behind you.

[01:05:36] God’s forgive you for them. Stretch toward the mark of the high calling, he says in verse four, I press toward the mark of the prize of the high calling of God in Christ Jesus. What is that high calling? That I live with him eternally in Christ Jesus. Heaven is our home.

[01:05:56] I press forward. I reach forward to those things that. Are before for our conversation. Verse 20. This is Hebrews 320.

[01:06:06] For our conversation is in Heaven, not here on earth. This is not what we all involved in. Heaven is what we to be involved in. From whence also we look for the. Savior, the Lord Jesus Christ, who shall change our vile bodies, that it may.

[01:06:26] Be fashioned like unto a glorious body according to the working, whereby he is able even to subdue all things to himself. By faith I believe that promise right there, those are promises of God. And by faith I believe them. And by faith I’m looking for my eternal home in Heaven. My conversation is in heaven.

[01:06:49] Now getting back to our text in Hebrews 1115. If they had been thinking of that. Land from which they had gone out, they would have opportunity to return. This goes back to what Paul said in Philippians. Abraham left that I believe it’s your, if I’m not mistaken, your is where he is from.

[01:07:12] I don’t know why that’s flipping my mind right now, but if he’d just. Constantly oh, to go back home, as Israel would say, oh, that we were back in Egypt every time they got in trouble. Oh, that we were back in Egypt, and they know you brought us out here to die, Moses. And that’s not what God had for them. That’s not the promise of God I promised you a did they because of unbelief, they didn’t enter that land because they were always looking back the way it was.

[01:07:41] They would rather have gone back to bondage. Makes no sense to me. But if I was an Israelite in that time, I’d probably been right there with them. So I can’t condemn them. But if they’re constantly thinking of what’s behind then it might tempt you to.

[01:07:59] Go back to that old way, to. Go back to whatever God had brought you out of. We press toward the mark of the. High calling of Jesus Christ. We don’t look back of those things.

[01:08:12] But as it is, they desire a better country. We desire a better thing that God has prepared for us, that is a heavenly one. Therefore, God is not ashamed to be. Called their God, for he has prepared. For them a city.

[01:08:30] Again, going back to verse ten, you could say he’s talking about the Promised. Land, but it also is talking about a future city, an eternal city in heaven for us. And Jesus promises the disciples that before he leaves in John 14 one through four, let not your heart be troubled. Don’t be troubled of the things of this world. Don’t be troubled with all that’s going on and all these things.

[01:08:59] You have a heavenly home. You understand, you acknowledge that you’re just strangers in this land. He said you believed in God. Believe also in me. In other words, don’t let your heart be trolled.

[01:09:15] Put your faith in God. Put your faith in me. Believe what we’re telling you. Here what’s he telling us here in. John 14 one through four.

[01:09:25] Here’s another promise that I put my. Faith and trust in. In my Father’s house are many mansions. If it were not so, I would. Have told you I go to prepare a place for you, and if I.

[01:09:38] Go to prepare a place for you, I will come again and receive you unto Myself. That where I am, there you may be also. And whither I go, ye know. And the way you know, by faith. I trust the promise of God there.

[01:09:57] By faith I know my Savior is at the right hand of the Father because he’s promised it in His Word. He’s there making intercession for me every day, for you, for all of us. Who have put our trust and faith in Him. By faith I believe those things. I accept those things.

[01:10:14] By faith he’s told me he’s preparing. A place for me. And listen what he says here in. Verse three of John 14. I will come again.

[01:10:24] He said, I’m going to go prepare a place for you, and I’m going to come again now, I’m here now, but I’m going to come again and. Receive you unto myself.

[01:10:38] That where I am, you may be also. Many will tell you that Paul was. The first one to ever talk about the Rapture. I don’t believe that. So I believe I said that Enoch was a picture of it, and I.

[01:10:52] Believe Jesus gives them a glimpse of it here. Did they understand it? Absolutely not. They didn’t understand many things, because Jesus even told them, there’s many things I want to tell you, but you can’t take it now. You can’t even begin to understand it now.

[01:11:08] But he gives them. A little glimpse right here. I’m going to come again, and I’m. Not going to come again and set. Up a kingdom here on earth.

[01:11:18] That’s not what he said. He said, I’m going to come again and receive you. In other words, you’re going to come to me. That where I am, where’s he at. In heaven, you’re going to be also.

[01:11:31] I think Jesus gives a little picture of what the Rapture is going to be right there. I will come in the clouds, I’ll receive you in myself, and that where I am. In heaven, you will be, too. That’s the promise of God. I believe it’s just a little snippet, whether they understood it or not, of.

[01:11:51] The rapture of the Church, as Jesus says, I’m going to call you home. And you’re going to be with me. By faith. I believe that by faith. Verse going back to Hebrews eleven, verse 17.

[01:12:05] By faith. Abraham, when he was tested, offered up. Isaac, and he who had received the promises was in the act of offering. Up his only son.

[01:12:20] Of whom it. Is said, through Isaac shall your offspring be named. He considered that God was able even to raise him from the dead, from. Which, figuratively speaking, he did receive him back. So he was in the act of.

[01:12:39] Offering his only son. He said, Wait a minute, that wasn’t his only son. What about ishmael what about Hagar’s son? Remember the bond servant and all that stuff? That wasn’t the promised son.

[01:12:51] That wasn’t the son through promise. That was the son through disobedience of. Abraham and Sarah, where they didn’t believe. God and they thought they need to. Help God, and what a mess it made through the birth of Ishmael and.

[01:13:07] Hagar and the conflict that it caused then. And then Abraham had to send Hagar. And Ishmael off, and he gave him a blessing and money and all these things. But they became a great nation, and I believe that’s the Islamic nation you’re. Seeing today, that has been and that.

[01:13:26] Is promised, even all the way back then, that they would be, for lack of better word, a thorn in Israel’s side from now on. And it is so because of Abraham’s disobedience. That’s what ishmael caused But Isaac was his only son, only begotten son, in that he was the son of promise. His only son he offered him there on Mount Moriah. I don’t know if you know, but Mount Moriah also is Mount Zion.

[01:13:59] In this picture here of Abraham offering. Isaac his only son was a picture of Christ, of how on Mount Moriah. Abraham went up to offer his son, his only son. God gave his only begotten son that. Whosoever should believe in him should not perish, but have everlasting life.

[01:14:23] Abraham went up and Isaac was carrying the wood on his back. Jesus carried a cross up Zion, Mount. Zion or Galgotha’s Hill to die for. The sins of the world. Abraham was going to offer Isaac on the way up.

[01:14:41] It’s interesting that Isaac asked. Abraham said, dad, you know, I see. The wood, I see the fire, but where’s the sacrifice? And Abraham told Isaac, god will provide. Himself a lamb for a burnt offering.

[01:14:57] So they both went up them together. That’s Genesis 22 eight. All the way back to Abraham’s time, I believe, was a prophetic statement of Abraham acknowledging what? The promise of God that he would. Provide not just a sacrifice, but a.

[01:15:15] Lamb for a burnt offering, the lamb of God to take away the sins of the world. And Abraham did that and believed God and trusted God even though it was his only son. He knew that even if he had thrust that knife through his son, that. That was the promise. And he believed God’s promise so much.

[01:15:35] That if he killed him, god would raise him back from the dead. If he didn’t get to the point of killing, god would provide a lamb, of which we all see that God provided a lamb instead of Isaac. God provided his son instead of me and you. Instead of us having to die for. Our sins, which we couldn’t, god provided.

[01:15:58] A Lamb that would die for the. Sins of the world. So whether they fully and understood all of that, who Jesus was, more than likely not. But they did understand that God would provide a sacrifice for the sins of the world. In Genesis 22 five, in this story, we see.

[01:16:20] And Abraham said to the young men, abide here with the asses, and I and the lad will go yonder and. Worship and come again to you. Even before they went up on Mount Moriah, abraham was demonstrating his faith in God’s promise. Not only me and my son are going to go worship, not sacrifice. And by the way, I’m going to.

[01:16:45] Bring my son back with me. We’re both going to come back to. You, whatever way it happens. God is going to provide the sacrifice and I’m trusting Him for that. And I’m believing him.

[01:16:57] I put my faith in Him for that. Guess you could say what great faith of Abraham. No, abraham believed in a great God. So verse 20 maybe we’ll get through chapter eleven tonight.

[01:17:13] Verse 20. By faith, Isaac invoked future blessings on Jacob and Esau. By faith, Jacob, when dying, blessed each of the sons of Joseph bowing in worship over the head of his staff.

[01:17:33] This is interesting here, and when we. Get to chapter twelve, but I’ll talk about it some more about the Jewish blessings. But remember this, that when it was important to them to get the blessing of their father or their grandfather.

[01:17:52] And. In a Jewish blessing, there was some key components of it. First, there was a touch, a tender. Touch of the blesser as they would. Place their hands on the head of the child or the shoulders of the child and they would bless him.

[01:18:10] So there was a touch there that they would do. Then there was some meaningful words that they would express to them. I see great things in you and you’re just really giving words of admiration. And you see that in some of the blessings that Jacob gave and what. Joseph gave to his grandchildren.

[01:18:35] You see this in these blessings. And then in the third part of it would be a future direction. You’re going to do great things for the Lord or you’re going to be this or you’re going to be that. And that was part of the blessing. The Jewish customs and blessings of that.

[01:18:53] Time was a touch and meaningful words and then future directions of the way they were going.

[01:19:02] We might get into that a little bit more in chapter twelve, but I want you to understand that and remember that for right now. But by faith Jacob blessed them.

[01:19:13] Saying that they would do great things for the Lord, that God would bless them, that they would go into the promised Land. By faith, joseph at the end of. His life made mention of the Exodus. Of Israelites and gave directions concerning his bones. We see in Genesis 50 that when.

[01:19:33] Joshua Joseph was in Egypt and he. Was about to die, he gave explicit. Instructions don’t leave me here in Egypt, don’t leave me in this place of bondage. Take my bones with you when you leave. They were still there in Egypt, but.

[01:19:55] He said, when you leave, take my bones with me, bury me in that promised land. By faith god had promised Abraham a. Land to the forefathers and they believed God. And so by faith he said, take. My bones with me or with you.

[01:20:15] When you go into the promised land. And bury me there by faith. And that is fulfilled, by the way, in Joshua 24 32, where they buried Joseph bones in the promised land. So by faith, Moses verse 23, when. He was born, was hidden for three months by his parents because they saw.

[01:20:39] That the child was beautiful and they. Were not afraid of the king’s etiquette. By faith, Moses parents hid Moses. Remember they put him in the basket and covered and hit him in the Nile. I think it was because the king.

[01:20:58] Wanted to kill all the firstborn of the Jewish because he thought there would. Be too many of them and that. They would overthrow them. And he didn’t like who they were making friends with and all those things. And he was afraid of Israel overthrowing.

[01:21:14] The Egyptians and so he was going. To thin them out and say, kill all the firstborn. Well, when Moses was born, the parents. Recognized that he was something special given. By God and so they put him.

[01:21:28] In the basket to save his life. And in Moses you see where Pharaoh’s daughter found him and they took him into Pharaoh’s house. And he grew up in Pharaoh’s courts. God spared his life because of the faith of his parents. And in verse 24, by faith, Moses.

[01:21:49] When he was grown up, refused to be called the son of Pharaoh’s daughter, choosing rather to be mistreated with the people of God than to enjoy the fleeing pleasures of sin. So by faith Moses acted. Moses believed what God said, what God promised. Abraham, I got something in my throat.

[01:22:17] Moses believed what God’s promises and by faith he acted on that. No, I’m not Pharaoh’s daughter. I’m an Egyptian. Or I’m not an Egyptian. I’m an Israelite.

[01:22:31] I am one of God’s chosen people. And he’s promised us a land and he’s revealed to me that I’m going to deliver them from this land. Now we see again where Moses messed up with that and killed a couple. Of the Egyptians and took matters in. His own hand, once again trying to help God out.

[01:22:49] But in his heart, God knew his heart that he believed what God’s promises. Was, even though he tried to interfere a little bit. By faith, Moses believed God refused to. Be called the son or be adopted. As a Pharaoh’s daughter, but would rather have been treated as his Israelite brothers and sisters than to live in the.

[01:23:14] Palace and to live in sin. He wanted to believe God than to. Live in sin again. There’s just message after message in here that could apply to us today. A lot of times there’s things that.

[01:23:27] Tempt us and we’d want to do. This and we want to do that. And yeah, it might not be really. What God would like for us to. Do, but would I give up this?

[01:23:37] Would I give up a job that really pays a lot of money if. I knew that’s not what God wanted for me? God wanted me to go this way instead of this way. Which way am I going to go? Which way would I choose?

[01:23:53] I would rather choose God and have faith in God and his promises that he is the rewarder of those who diligently seek Him and not this good. Paying job or this whatever that may be tempting you. We’ll talk about that some more in verse twelve. Let’s see, verse 26. He considered the reproach of Christ greater.

[01:24:16] Wealth than the treasures of Egypt. For he was looking to the reward. See is the rewarder of those who diligently seek Him, who believe God and put their faith and trust in Him. That he is all I need. I am that I am.

[01:24:35] I am what you need. I have all that you need. If we could get a hold of. That and live our Christian lives. That I have done it all for.

[01:24:45] You on the cross I have prepared. I know my thoughts, my plans for you. And if you’ll just put your faith and trust in me, just watch what. Happens if you’ll seek me diligently to. That relationship, I will bless you exceedingly abundantly, above all that you ask or think.

[01:25:06] So we see that here. And as this writer is telling these Jewish readers now, remember who he’s talking to. These ones that were all caught up in the Jewish system and the law, and that’s all they ever knew for thousands of years. He said, this is how you live the Christian life. Put your faith in God, as all.

[01:25:26] These patriarchs did, as all these ones did before us. Put your faith in God. Not in sacrificial system, not in the law, not in a high priest or a priest here on earth, but put your faith in God. This is how you live your Christian life. It’s important for us to understand.

[01:25:48] Don’t put your faith in a church. Don’t put your faith in a pastor. I hear a lot of times on TikTok it sound like just a pastor bashing. People need to understand pastors are people. Just like they are, just like Moses.

[01:26:03] Made mistakes and Abraham made mistakes and Isaac made mistakes. We’re all human beings and we’re all capable of falling. You put your faith and trust in God. You put your faith and trust in Him. Let Him take care of those who.

[01:26:21] Aren’T doing what he asks to do or what they’re supposed to be doing. And people get they get highly disappointed when they put up on a pedestal. Falls, and then they want to get. Mad at God and they want to leave the church and they want to do this. You are going to church for the wrong reason.

[01:26:39] Your church is to build. I tell my people all the time. My job is to point you to. Christ, to help you to know that. He wants a relationship with Him, that he wants you to diligently seek Him.

[01:26:54] That’s where your reward is. Not in this church, not in me. I’m going to fail you. The church is going to fail you. All this will fail you, but God will never fail.

[01:27:06] Put your faith and trust in Him. So where was that? Let’s see. By faith he left Egypt, not being. Afraid of the anger of the king, for he endured and seeking Him who is invisible.

[01:27:20] So remember at this point that when Moses left Egypt, he hadn’t seen God. He just knew the promises of God. He knew what God had promised. By faith, he did that. And like Abraham, he left really not knowing where he’s going.

[01:27:36] He just left Egypt, left the king. Because he was going to serve the living God, the one who he had not even seen. Now we see later. He saw him at the burning bush. Well, he saw his backside at the burning bush.

[01:27:51] He experienced him fully as he diligently sought God. Not Egypt, not the Pharaoh, not those riches. He was seeking God. He was putting his faith and trust in his promise. And God rewarded him and revealed himself to him at the burning bush, and he got a glimpse of his goodness.

[01:28:12] So he endured as seeing him who is invisible, he was looking to God, putting his faith and trust in Him. By faith, verse 28 he kept the. Passover and sprinkled the blood so the. Destroyer of the first born might not touch them. You think it took great faith that night, God says, I’m going to send the death angel, so to speak, and.

[01:28:40] He’S going to come and he’s going. To kill all the first born. He even killed the cattle. And all these things were going to die that night if there was no. Blood on the doors post of their homes.

[01:28:55] It took great faith. Could you imagine those that have your. First born son and you know, tonight he’s going to die and you got. To put this blood of this lamb. Over the doorpost and what faith it would take to, you know I hope.

[01:29:12] Moses told us right. I hope nobody got the translation messed up and I hope know I can read this right translation or that right translation. No. God made it very real to Him what he wanted. And they by faith put the blood on the doorpost and their firstborn was spared.

[01:29:30] Salvation came through the blood. When I see the blood, I will pass over you. So that by faith it took that. And Moses commanded or told the children of Israel to do that, and even. Some of the Egyptians did that, and.

[01:29:46] Their firstborn were saved. But that’s another lesson. By faith, the people crossed the Red. Sea as on dry land, but the Egyptians, when they attempted to do the same, were drowned. So by faith they crossed the Red Sea.

[01:30:03] Now again, when we’re acting in faith. They were up and they had the Red Sea in front of them. The Egyptians were coming over the mountain behind them. They were between a rock and a hard place. Now where do we go?

[01:30:21] And they began to murmur and complain. And Moses, god told Moses to put. Your staff in the water and part the waters. It’s interesting there that even our faith requires action. You believe what you know, okay, yeah.

[01:30:38] I believe what he said. I’m just going to sit here and wait for it. No, faith requires action. Faith without works is dead. Faith.

[01:30:49] God told Moses to put his staff in the water. Well, if he’d never done it, would the waters have parted? I don’t know. That’s a big hypothetical situation. But what I’m trying to point out.

[01:31:02] Here is that Moses believed God what he said. By faith. He just put his staff in the water and the water started. Moses acted on what he believed in. His heart and the waters parted.

[01:31:15] They walked across on dry ground and as they got across, the Egyptians tried. To do that and they were drowned. There was no believing God. There was no faith there. And God destroyed their enemies.

[01:31:30] So they were instructed to start walking when they came to the Jordan. If you see where they went into the Promised Land after you see another. Picture of that when Joshua took over.

[01:31:47] They went across the Nile, I believe. And he told them to start walking in the water. Let the Ark of the Covenant go forth with the priest. And he said, as you’re going, just start walking in the water. That took faith.

[01:32:02] God said to do it that way. And they got about ankle deep and the waters parted and they walked across on dry ground once again. But once again, faith requires action. Not for salvation, but faith will. Let me say it better this way.

[01:32:20] Faith will result in action. You will do what God says if you put your faith in Him. If you believe his promise. If you believe what he said, you will do what he says. That’s what’s going on with James.

[01:32:35] It is a product of what’s in. Our heart, of what we believe, what. We have our faith in. The product of that is action. Just like the big engine, the powerful engine and the transmission.

[01:32:50] The faith is the transmission. The power is God, and the wheels. Are the action that takes place when we put our faith and trust in Him. By faith. The walls of Jericho fell down after they’d been encircled for seven days.

[01:33:04] Now, this story always gets and there’s cute little songs about it and everything. Else, but the walls of Jericho came tumbling down. Now, these people knew that God was. Going to deliver them, that the Rahab acknowledged that. We knew 40 years ago God was going to give you this land.

[01:33:23] And we trembled. We were terrified of you guys. And here they do. They cross, and they finally get into the Promised Land. They come to this first major city.

[01:33:33] They have to conquer that God conquers. For them, by the way. And they do nothing but march around it for seven days and then blow their horns. Could you imagine those in that city there looking down and saying, look at these crazy people out here. This is the great army of God.

[01:33:54] They’re just going to walk around us every day and expect something to happen. Could you imagine how the world would look at them? How crazy they were for what they were doing? Yet this is what God told them. This is the exact instructions God told them to do.

[01:34:09] Sometimes our faith doesn’t make sense to. The rest of the world. Sometimes we just have to step out, even when it doesn’t make sense to. Our friends and to the world. When God says it by faith, we trust Him.

[01:34:22] We believe what he says. And we know the rest of that. Story that God destroyed the walls, that. The walls came down when they blew their trumpets.

[01:34:36] I hate to say they defeated the city, but they overtook the city because. God tore down the walls and they. Had victory that day because they obeyed God by faith. The walls of Jericho fell down.

[01:34:53] Even when it seemed crazy to the rest of the world by faith. Rahab the prostitute did not perish with those who were disobedient because she had. Given a friendly welcome to the spies. Now, I want to go back to. A statement I made just a few.

[01:35:16] Minutes ago when they came and talked to Rehab. She acknowledged 40 years ago they believed. That God had given them that city. She believed the God of Israel already. That he was capable, that he was.

[01:35:32] Going to give them what he had promised. She already had believed the God of Israel. And so she wasn’t spared just because she was nice to the spies. Her faith in the God of Israel. That he was the one and only God through whom Israel was being blessed.

[01:35:56] She trusted in that same God, understood these spies were part of his people and was nice to them, and God. Blessed her for that, for her faith. I hope that makes sense. I hope I didn’t get everybody confused. You know, some would go over there and say, yeah, because she did this, she was saved in the thing.

[01:36:15] No. And then they want to go into. You got to do this to be saved, and that’s not right. She already believed the God of Israel. She already had faith.

[01:36:27] She acknowledged that and knew that 40. Years ago before they ever got there. As a result of that over her. Belief in the God of Israel. She was friendly to his people, she.

[01:36:39] Took care of the spies and she believed. And they told her to put the. Red thread out the wall and her. And her family would be saved. And she did that.

[01:36:50] And that’s exactly what happened, because she believed the God of Israel and his promises. So, verse 32. Wow.

[01:37:04] Let’s see, what shall I say? More for the time would fail me. To tell of Gideon, Barak, Samson, Japheth, David and Samuel and the Prophets who. Through faith conquered kingdoms, enforced judgment obtained promises shut the mouths of lions quenched. The power of fire escaped the edge of the sword were made strong out of weakness became mighty in war put.

[01:37:35] Foreign armies to flight where women received back their dead by resurrection. Some were tortured, refusing to accept release. So that they may raise again to a better life. So he says, I could go on and on and on, guys, that it. Has always been by grace through faith.

[01:37:58] God never intended you to keep the law. Stop going back to the law. The law was only to point you to Christ. The law was only about Christ. It’s always been about faith all the way back to our forefather, all the.

[01:38:14] Way back to Abel. It’s been by faith all the way back through there. So those who argue that oh, they. Were saved a different way in the Old Testament. It was not saved by a different.

[01:38:26] Way in the it was they acted. Out a different way. But ultimately it was by God’s grace and through their faith and believe in. The promises of God, the pictures of. Christ, all through the Old Testament, that point that God would provide a sacrifice is all through the Old Testament in the tabernacle, they were saved by grace.

[01:38:50] No man comes to the Father but by me. That’s all Old Testament people, that’s all New Testament people, that’s all us. Nobody comes to God except through the. Blood of Jesus Christ. That’s the only way of salvation.

[01:39:05] That’s the only way that it’s ever. Been that nothing changed with that. Their understanding changed as this progressive revelation of who Christ was and what his name would be and all those things. They begin to understand more and more, just like we begin to understand more. And more of God’s word the more we study it.

[01:39:27] But all these did this and he’s saying, stop going back to all this stuff. It’s by faith. And I’ve give you a whole list of all these people that you know and you recognize all these things you’ve been taught from a child. And I could keep going and tell. You about Gideon who started out with.

[01:39:47] All this great army. And God brings them down to just. 300 people and they defeat the armies. Just by standing around the edge of. Their camp with lanterns and horns.

[01:40:02] They again did nothing. God fought their battle for them. The battle is the Lord’s. He will give you the victory. If we put our faith and trust in him.

[01:40:13] We see that with Samson and all that. David david was in the comfort of his father’s home tending the sheep and. Was announced that he would be the next king. And this is something too, to understand. Really important, that when God makes a.

[01:40:32] Promise to us, we want to get in a hurry. We want it to happen right now. We don’t like waiting. We don’t like those silent times. But the fact is that David, after Samuel anointed with oil and said he would be king.

[01:40:49] It was almost 25 years before he. Was king of Israel. For 25 years, God took him through things and taught him through things and prepared him to be the king of Israel that God wanted him to be. So it took a long time by Paul on the road to Damascus, everybody. Thinks, well, the road Damascus Ananias went and gave him sight back.

[01:41:14] He went to preaching and people were getting saved by the droves. No, Paul went away for three years and learned more as Jesus revealed to him these different things. For three years, even Paul waited for God to move and to do those things. John the Baptist and you could just go on and on through scripture. Don’t always think just because okay, I’ve got faith now.

[01:41:42] I believe what you said, God. Now let it happen tomorrow. Sometimes it may take time. Sometimes it may take others being prepared. That go along with you.

[01:41:53] You’re looking for a husband, looking for a wife. God may have you ready, but is. Your wife or your husband ready? God may need to prepare them for you. So sometimes it takes time.

[01:42:06] We need to wait upon those who wait upon the Lord shall renew their strength. They will mount up with wings as eagles. You know those verses. So in our faith, we got to remember waiting is also important. God’s promises are always his promises.

[01:42:23] No matter how much we get distracted. Or how much we think it’s not. Going to happen, god’s promised he’s coming back. And no matter how long he waits doesn’t mean he’s not he is coming back. It is going to happen by faith.

[01:42:40] We just keep trusting by faith, he. Gives this whole list of people, and. This first group here in 32 through. 35, these were delivered from persecution. They did great things for the Lord by faith.

[01:42:55] But the next set in verses 36 through 37 were delivered in persecution. In verse 36, it says. Others suffered mocking and flogging and even chains and imprisonment. They were stoned, they were sawn in two, they were killed with a sword. They went about in skins of sheep and goats, destitute afflicted and mistreated of.

[01:43:24] Whom the world was not worthy, wandering. About in it in deserts and mountains and dens and caves of the earth. And all these through, though commended through their faith, did not receive the promise. Did not see Jesus come, did not see the fulfillment of the Messiah, did not experience the indwelling of the Holy Spirit. That’s the promise that it’s talking about.

[01:43:51] Just keep that in mind the revealing. Of God’s Son for the sins of the world. But all these were delivered in persecution. They died for their faith. Isaiah is the one that was saw.

[01:44:06] In the thunder, put in a log and cut in two while he was in the log. These all suffered, all the prophets and all those that suffered persecution by the. Religious system, by faith. They believed God even when it meant great persecution. Sometimes he delivers us from it, sometimes he delivers us through it.

[01:44:30] But the idea is we live a life by faith and trusting and believing. What God says was true, no matter what happens. So all these thought, commended through their faith did not receive what was promised. Since God had provided something better for. Us, that apart from us, they should.

[01:44:56] Not be made perfect. God has promised a better way of salvation is what he’s telling than the Law and the sacrificial system. But we must accept that way through. Faith and not by works. Don’t go back to the Law.

[01:45:16] Okay, now what do we do if we don’t have the temple and. The priest and the sacrifice, what do we do? Live your Christian life by faith. In God’s promises that his son said it is finished on the cross, it. Is done, it is complete.

[01:45:36] And by. Faith we just trust Him, we rest in Him. Live your Christian life by faith. This is what he’s telling them here. In these things as they wonder what.

[01:45:49] Now, what do I do? Since I don’t have all this religious system that we’ve known for thousands of years. Just live your life by faith. And he would say to us today guys, you are saved by faith. Live your life, your Christian life by.

[01:46:03] Faith in God you save by grace. Live by grace, saved by faith. Live by faith. It doesn’t change once we’re saved. And then in those things we act out our faith and what we believe.

[01:46:20] Is a result of our salvation, not. A requirement for our salvation.

[01:46:30] I don’t have about 14 minutes and. I guess I’ll just sort of quit early there and ask if you got. Any questions or thoughts. I hope this was helpful in understanding this. It took a lot longer than I.

[01:46:44] Didn’T know I could do chapter eleven. For 2 hours, but Lord knew different, I guess.

[01:46:55] Any questions or anything? Anybody have to add?

[01:47:02] Yeah, there is. There is a lot of good stuff and I’ll be honest with you, there’s more in it than that. There’s so much good stuff. The whole book of Hebrews to me is so full of such rich study. And things for our understanding and how.

[01:47:22] In the world some can say, oh. It just wasn’t for us, man. We see all that we are in Christ and what he’s done for us and how we’re complete in Him, we rest in Him. I love the book of Hebrews. I was excited that I got to.

[01:47:39] Do it as we look through it and we’ll go through chapter twelve and. Maybe chapter 13 next week and then we’ll be through. So if there’s nothing else, we all need that patience. I pray for patience and Lord please give me patience and hurry up about it. That’s the way I usually do it.

[01:48:14] But we’re impatient people but we got. To learn to wait on the Lord and just trust Him and put our faith in Him. Yes. Next Saturday night, same time at 08:00 if you’re catching up, this is lesson six. So the other lessons are in the depository under my name.

[01:48:35] I think Chris created that for me.

[01:48:39] So you can catch up on those there. It’ll take you to we didn’t have. Any place to store those audio tapings. So we just stored them on our church website.

[01:48:58] Just don’t get worried about going to another website. It’s just our church website just because. We didn’t have no other place to store them. But you can listen to them there. And get caught up to where we’re at.

[01:49:12] All right, good to have you tonight. Thank you for coming. We’ll close with word of prayer, and if y’all want to hang out and. Have conversation, discuss, that’ll be fine. But let’s just close in prayer now.

[01:49:23] Father, we just thank you for this time we have together. And we pray, Lord, that even now. That the Holy Spirit would reveal the. Truth to us and open our eyes. To see and our ears to hear.

[01:49:34] Lord, that would impress upon our hearts. That we, by faith, would trust you every day to trust in Your promises. As we go through our Christian life. We just thank you for your word. We thank you for Your love to us and Your grace.

[01:49:49] We thank you for Jesus. In Jesus name I pray. Amen.



[00:00:00] I guess I got about nine and after I guess we can go ahead and get started and maybe some others come in. If not, then this is what we’re supposed to have tonight. I’m hoping maybe we’ll finish up this study tonight and then those have missed it. We’ll get it posted. I’ll try to remember the post last week, I forgot all about it and it’s been sort of crazy week but I’ll get that one posted up too.

[00:00:28] But if you don’t know if you need to catch up all these lessons have been recorded and put in the depository under the library under my name. So if you need to catch anybody needs to catch up or something you want to review again or wonder what in the world I sent you can go back and listen to it again.

[00:00:53] So anyway with that we’ll get started and I’ll open us with a word of prayer. Father, we just thank you for the time to come together tonight and to study Your word once again as we go through the book of Hebrews and pray that you just lead and guide us. And all that said, just give us understanding through the Holy Spirit, just to show us the truth of Your word and that you’d be glorified. Just thank you and praise you for all that you’ve done for us. Thank you for this study, thank you for this Word, Jesus name I pray, amen.

[00:01:29] Welcome in, welcome in there’s Chris, I think. Yep, there’s Chris.

[00:01:38] Didn’t know how many might come tonight with all the festivities going on with Labor Day weekend but we’re going to try to get through. You haven’t missed anything. We were just chatting, getting know each other a little bit and waiting for some to come in. The reminder, everybody did see a reminder so I just put something out on the general chat for it. But we’re in chapter twelve tonight.

[00:02:02] I’ve already opened with a word of prayer for those in just coming in and we are going to try to finish the last two chapters, lord willing. We’ll just see how it goes but I think we can do that. And just remember chapters one through ten are all pretty much doctrinal statements.

[00:02:28] Can’t hardly hear me. Can anybody else have any problem hearing me?

[00:02:37] You sound clear on my end. Okay, all right, maybe it’s her. She said she’s going to go out and come back in. So chapters one through ten are pretty much a doctrinal statements of where they’re at. The book of Hebrews was written to the Hebrews, basically telling them not to be Hebrews anymore.

[00:03:00] Stop acting like Hebrews. That Christ has come and fulfilled the law and all those things in it and that we are no longer to do those things you’ve done for thousands of years. Well, I e temple worship and sacrifices and going to the high priest. And if you remember all the study, it just starts out in chapter one explaining who Jesus is, that he’s better than angels, he’s better than he’s. He’s greater than the high priest, but he is our high priest after the order of Melchizedek, that he is better than the law, he was a better sacrifice, and he serves in a better tabernacle or a better temple, which is a heavenly temple.

[00:03:50] And basically all that comes together in what I call the grand finale in chapter ten, he says Jesus is better than all, he’s the fulfillment of all of that. And you go to verse 26, the one that everybody confuses and talks about oh, if you go on sinning willfully, there is no sacrifice for sin. And that is not what it’s talking to a believer, he’s talking to them. If you reject the superiority of Jesus Christ and his finished work on the cross, there is no other sacrifice for sin. Jesus is it.

[00:04:30] And if you reject that willfully, there’s nothing left for you. There is no other sacrifice for sin but Jesus Christ. So that to me 1026 is the grand finale from chapter one through chapter ten. As he explains the superiority, you remember that’s the theme of the whole book of Hebrews is that Jesus is enough. He is superior in every way over everything, the law and the eye priest and all they’ve ever known, all their forefathers, Moses, all those things, jesus is superior.

[00:05:05] And so last week we looked at, he told them in chapter ten, don’t forsake the assembling of yourself. In other words, just because Jesus has come and he’s offered this sacrifice for the sins of the world and it’s finished, that doesn’t mean we stop fellowship with one another and edifying one another, don’t stop coming togethering together to encourage one another and to edify one another. And then he goes on to chapter eleven. And we seen last week, took me 2 hours to do it. I was shocked that it took that long, but I just felt like we need to cover that much.

[00:05:43] But now that all the temple worship and the sacrifices and the high priests and all that is done away and fulfilled in Jesus Christ and his finished work on the cross, he says just live by faith. And so he gives examples through the whole chapter of eleven, is to walk by faith, not by the law. And he gives examples of Abraham and all those who walk by faith even before the law came.

[00:06:15] He’s just explaining to them all. And we went through each one of the individual things, how they live by faith, not by the law. In chapter eleven now, chapter twelve, he says okay, again they’re anticipating their well, there’s no more need to go to church, nothing else for me to do. Jesus has finished it all and he’s not. So we’re to live by faith, and from faith we see after our salvation and our faith we see that because of that a result.

[00:06:45] The fruit of that is we do these things by faith. Abraham did this or did that. And it’s not a requirement for salvation, but a result of salvation. Simply put, an apple tree produces apples, an orange tree produces oranges. So that’s by faith we produce those things, fruits of the Holy Spirit as we walk our Christian lives.

[00:07:14] And now in chapter twelve here, our hope is in Jesus, not in the law. We have this hope that we have and we’ll just start out in verse one. Therefore now I’m reading out the ESV for those of you who are following wrong. Therefore, since we are surrounded by so great a cloud of witness, let us also lay aside every weight and sin which clings so closely. Let us run with endurance the race that is set before us.

[00:07:49] So we’re surrounded by a great cloud of witnesses. Who are those? Chapter Eleven all the witnesses, all those that were before us. And we see how they walked on earth as we are walking on earth. And they lived by faith.

[00:08:10] As they live by faith. Those that live by faith. Those are the cloud of witnesses, those are the evidence of salvation. And as they walk by faith, we walk by faith. And as an example, they were to us, and they’ll go on to say down here later, that even Jesus walking by faith, example to us.

[00:08:33] Let’s talk about the let us lay aside every weight and sin. King James, which so easily besets us. So this one is which cleans so closely. This weight is anything that would distract us from being or doing what the Lord wants to do or be. Do not get caught up in the cares of this world is basically what he’s saying there.

[00:09:01] Don’t let the things of this world weight you down and bring you to a place where you’re distracted and not doing and being what God wants you to do. Or those sins, those sins that would hinder the work of the Holy Spirit in us or the fellowship we have with them. We’ve seen that in other verses, that our sin can hinder our relationship, but our sin does not take away that relationship. It only can hinder that relationship. And we can hinder the work or grieve the work of the Holy Spirit with sin in our lives, living in sin.

[00:09:40] So he’s saying, put those things off, put those things aside and don’t do those things. I like how he always compares things. When he talked to Timothy, he said, I finished my course, I fought a good fight, comparing it almost to a fighter, a boxer that would be fighting. Now here he compares it as a runner that runs a race of endurance. Once we are saved, there is things that we go through and we should be like a well trained runner that you don’t see a runner running around with a backpack on his back and doing all these things.

[00:10:22] Runners usually wearing shorts and a little skimpy shirt and lightest weight tennis shoes he can get because he wants all the weight off of them. He can get off of him to make him more effective, more wind resistance, and to be able to run that race and do those things necessary to win and to focus on the goal. So he’s given a comparison there of a runner running the race.

[00:10:49] That’s the way we ought to be as Christians. Don’t let those things of the world bog us down. The tears of this world, our home. As we said last week, this is not our home. I may not have said it last week, I may have been said it in my sermon Sandy last week.

[00:11:05] I can’t remember. I get things mixed up anymore. Sorry about that. But I was telling about how we don’t let the chairs of this world weight us down to run this race effectively. And if we bring all this baggage and all these things on us and worry about all these things, then it just weights us down and we get so concerned and bottled up in this world and the cares of this world.

[00:11:36] Our focus is no longer on Jesus. Just like Peter walking on the water. He was walking fine on the water until he took his eyes off of Jesus and he began to look at the waves and the storm. That’s when he began to see. He was weighted down or distracted by the storm and took his eyes off Jesus.

[00:11:59] To us, we verse two looking to Jesus, there was keep our eyes focused on Him. Don’t let the things of this world bring us down that so easily beset us and distract us. We’re to look to Jesus, the founder and perfecter of our faith. You want to know how to live the Christian life? Look to Jesus.

[00:12:23] Now, will we do it just like he did and exactly like he did? Absolutely not. He was the only one perfect. We’re going to still fall short, as Paul talks about in Romans seven. We still live in this sinful flesh that we’re going to war with every day.

[00:12:41] But at the end of the day, he said, who will deliver me from this bondage of sin? I thank God through my Lord and Savior, Jesus Christ. You keep your eyes focused on Him, of what he told us to do, of how he did things and how he endured. So verse two is looking to Jesus, the founder and perfecter of our faith, who, for the joy that was set before Him, endured the cross, despising the shame, and is seated at the right hand of the throne of God. Now, that verse always is sort of like, wow, for the joy he went to the cross and suffered that beating and being hung on the cross and being mocked and spit upon and made fun of and died and separated and paid our sin debt.

[00:13:31] That was joy. That’s what Scripture tells us. He knew the outcome. He told his disciples don’t worry about the one that can destroy the body, but you worry about the one that destroys both the body and soul. And he understood that God would raise him from the dead, he wouldn’t keep his soul in hell, as is mentioned in the Psalms.

[00:13:58] He understood that. He knew that that he was doing this for the will of the Father, bringing glory to the Father, as he brought salvation to you and me. So that even gave joy to Jesus, even on the cross. I love the old song when he was on the cross, I was on his mind. Great song.

[00:14:20] But for the joy that was set before Him. And he endured such pain and affliction and suffering for us and as a result is now seated at the right hand of the Father. That seated again, as we’ve seen two or three times throughout the book of Hebrews, would have been very important to these Hebrew listeners is they understood there was no seats in the tabernacle at all. And that was because the work of the High Priest was never complete. He may have sacrificed all day long, but he had to get up and do it all day long.

[00:14:56] The next day and the next day and the next day, every day, because the job was never finished. But when Jesus offered Himself as a sacrifice for sin, he cried it is finished. And he sat down at the right hand of the Father. This would have really just pricked the hearts of these Jewish readers as they would understand. He seated and signifying it is finished, there is nothing else to be done.

[00:15:22] We can’t do anything to add to that salvation. Jesus did it all for us on the cross and sat down at the right hand of the Father. Jesus is our example of not being distracted or caught up in the cares of this world. He wasn’t worried that foxes have holes to nest, but the Son of man has nowhere to lay his head. The cares of this world didn’t bother Him.

[00:15:49] He was here to do the will of the Father because he understood how important it was and what it meant for the whole world. Talking about carrying the whole world on his shoulder, jesus was doing that. So he kept his goal. He did the will of the Father to bring salvation to the world and obtain the highest price, to be seated at the right hand of the Father and to have all things put into subjection to Him.

[00:16:26] He endured and run that race. I need to hit me, my dog is wanting to bark or something. I don’t need that right now. Sorry guys.

[00:16:40] And also there on the cross I just had a thing thought or something that when he was on the cross. Have you ever been through difficult times? And you just think, wow, this is just so hard. And God will just send you a little glimpse of hope or a little ray of sunshine. Just say, hey, I got you.

[00:17:00] You’re going to be okay. We’re doing this for a reason. It’s going to be all right. And here’s just a little tidbit as you go through your difficult time. I don’t know if you’ve ever had those times, but I certainly have.

[00:17:12] And I think of the thief on the cross when he cried out to Jesus, remember me today. And Jesus said, today that will be with me in paradise. I think that was almost like a little tidbit maybe from the Father, or that he showed that thief that he’s a sinner and that he needed a Savior, and that Jesus and his humanity got a little ray of sunshine and all that suffering. This is why I’m doing this. This is so I can bring all mankind to my Father, to restore that relationship, to restore all that sin had destroyed.

[00:17:54] I’m bringing this one to the Father today. And so it was almost like a ray of hope. In the midst of all that pain and suffering and anguish that he suffered on the cross, this thief was saved and lived eternity in Heaven with Him. So just a little thought for that and maybe chased a little rabbit there, but I think it just looking to Jesus, the founder and perfecter of our faith, before that joy was set before Him, set down at the right hand of the Father, despising the shame, and is seated at the right hand of the Father. So now we go on.

[00:18:33] And it goes on to explain to Him even more in this chapter, our hope is in Jesus, so don’t grow weary. Verse three. Consider Him who endured from sinners such hostility against Himself, so that you may not grow weary or faint hearted. Consider Jesus the Author and the finish of our faith. All that he went through, it he endured, these ones that God could have just sent 10,000 angels and destroyed, but he says, no, I love them, and I will stay the core course and I will finish my fight.

[00:19:15] I will do what the Father has called me to do. I will bring salvation to the world. If Jesus can do that and he says, you can do without me, you can do nothing. But with Christ, I can do everything. Paul says through Him, I can do all things.

[00:19:33] So if Jesus could endure all that because he loves us so much, because of the hope that he gives us, certainly we can endure the little bit of trials and temptations that we go through. So consider Him who endured so much that we don’t grow weary or faint hearted as he tells these Hebrew listeners this, that we’re surrounded by such a great cloud of witness and those who kept the faith even though they suffered hardship. They’re all examples to us. And even more, Jesus, fix your eyes on Him who endured these great difficulties and was glorified above every name and set down at the right hand of the Father. He said, consider these things and don’t grow weary.

[00:20:22] When you’re persecuted, you go through difficulties and these strains and those things that want to bring you down and so easily beset you and be tempted by sin. Satan wants to distract us, satan wants to destroy us. And that’s why Jesus said in John 1518, if the world hates you, you know that it hated me before it hated you. So if we go through hardships and difficulties and temptations, they hated Jesus, and he says they’re going to hate you too. But he also told us in John 1633, be of good cheer, I have overcome the world.

[00:21:03] That is such a precious verse to me that if Jesus did the Author and the finisher of my faith, how much more can I do? When he gives me to take heart, I’ve overcome the world. Don’t lose heart. I’m the winner. I won and you can do all things through me.

[00:21:23] So don’t grow weary. Don’t lose faith when these things happen. And then he goes on to something interesting. Even so, the world hates you and they’ll bring you down and you look into Jesus and all these great cloud of witnesses. What about when it seems like God’s getting on your case?

[00:21:44] What about when you do something wrong and you just feel like the Lord is really chastising you way sort of hard, then you can grow weary at all. I’ve messed up so bad and I’ve struggled. This next set of verses is for you. It is for me. When we go through things and the Lord seems to be working in us and allowing things in us that we know we probably messed up, to me, this is great encouraging encouragement here is this when we do sin, he knows before you sin that you are going to ever sin.

[00:22:18] God’s never surprised at anything you do, but as a loving father, he has to correct you because he is a just father. He says, in your struggle against sin, you have not resisted to the point of shedding your blood. In other words, the writer is saying, I know sin is tough. And as Jesus went through these great sufferings and in the Garden of Eden, I think it’s our Garden of Gethsemane, not even excuse me, I think is maybe what he’s pointing to here. When Jesus remember he was in the garden of Gethsemane and in such anguish and troubled in the heart over what was about to take place because of the sins of the world, and he would die and remember as he prayed, he shed drops of blood.

[00:23:10] That means that his body was near shutting down. He was in such pressure and tormental over what sin had caused in the world, that his sweat became the drops of blood. Somebody that’s more educated me can tell you what’s going on, and I’ve heard before what’s going on in the body, but they say you’re getting pretty close to just shutting down when your sweat becomes blood. And I’ve sweat a lot in my life, but I’ve never sweat blood, thankfully. But I think Jesus even did that when he was about to go to the cross for us.

[00:23:47] So in your struggle against sin, you have not resisted to the point of shedding of your blood. I think he was remembering of that time thank you for putting that up, that HED great drops of blood falling down to the ground. So again, looking to Jesus, the author of the finish of our faith in this struggle of this, not that he was struggling with his sin, but he was struggling over the effects of sin on the world that God created. Verse five. And have you forgotten the exhortation that addresses you as sons?

[00:24:25] My son, do not regard lightly the discipline of the Lord, nor be weary when reproved by him. For the Lord disciplines the ones he loves and chastens every son whom he receives. I think this is very important for us to understand. I don’t know how many of you are on TikTok all the time, but you see people talking about you’re saved and you better act like XYZ. And we just get so caught up in the works and the things that we ought to be doing with Christians, and rightfully so.

[00:25:02] I mean, as Christians, we ought to act different from the world, we ought to look different from the world. But as a pastor, as a Christian, it’s not my job. I am not the sin sheriff. And I’m not supposed to go around pointing out everybody’s sins and tell them, you better get back in the right path. Now, obviously, if the Holy Spirit leads me to confront somebody and help them, as in Galatians six, it talks about to restore that person.

[00:25:29] Now, if I’m led by the Holy Spirit do it, I should lovingly go to that person and help restore them back into the fellowship, get them back on the right. Also by always keeping in mind that I’m just as capable of doing the same thing they’re doing. You don’t do it out of pride or anything. You do it lovingly and humbly, considering yourself. It says in Galatians, chapter six, so we can go and correct someone, but ultimately we’re not the sin sheriff.

[00:26:02] But Sid sheriff, I don’t know where I got that from, but I might be pretty good. But we need to remember, if this person that you look at and say, oh, they’re not living right and they’re not saved and they’re not, this God will strike you. If they are a Christian, god promises in the Word, and right here he promises in his word, I will correct my children.

[00:26:30] Just like me as a father with my kids, I wanted my kids to live a certain way, and I wanted them to do what was right. And I corrected my children. I made sure they straight on, the straight and narrow, best I knew. How much more would your Heavenly Father do to his children? So I don’t know how I got off on that.

[00:26:51] But what he’s addressing here is that if you are his children, the Lord will discipline you. My son, do not regard lightly the discipline of the Lord. Don’t take that lightly. When the Lord discipline you, you need to pay attention.

[00:27:11] He disciplines those that he finds worth in those who are his. Our worth is not in anything that we have done, but because he sees Jesus in us, there’s the worth. And if we’re lost, if we’re a lost person, god just turns us over to a reprobate minded, as we see in Romans 128. So God corrects his children, but those who aren’t his children, the Holy Spirit was, hey, you need to be saved. You need a savior.

[00:27:45] You’re living in sin, and you need salvation. But if they reject, that enough. I believe there comes a time when God says, okay, you have your way. You do your thing, as it talks about in the first chapter of Romans. And I believe that every person has the chance, the opportunity to be saved until death.

[00:28:08] And once death comes, it is appointed unto. Man wants to die, and after that the judgment. But there comes a point where God just says, okay, I’ll let you do your thing for the unsafe, but I don’t think so for the Christian. I believe he disciplines his children. Verse seven if it is for discipline that you have endured, god is treating you as sons.

[00:28:34] For what son is there whom his father does not discipline? If you are left without discipline, in which all have participated, then you are illegitimate children and not son. If God doesn’t discipline you, you’re not his child. And you think, wow, that’s pretty hard, that God disciplines his children. And if you’re out of line, that child that’s out of line is no concern to a man that’s not his father.

[00:29:07] Obviously, Jesus or God wants all men to come to Him, doesn’t want anybody to live in sin.

[00:29:17] But just like me, as a father, I never felt like it was my job to go discipline somebody else’s child. But God disciplines his children and you say, wow, this is tough. That’s not real encouraging. It is absolutely encouraging. Let me finish.

[00:29:33] Let me get through this and show you where. Even if God disciplines you, it ought to encourage you. He says verse nine. Besides this, we have earthly fathers who discipline us, and we respect them shall not much more be subject to the Father of spirits and live. If God disciplines us, that gives us assurance that we are his and we want to please Him.

[00:30:02] I know with my father, yeah, I did my things and I was a little boy and I did a lot of crazy things. But for the most part, I love to please my father. Why? Because I know my father loved me enough to discipline me. I know my father loved me enough to do all these things that I loved Him and wanted to please Him.

[00:30:24] This is what is saying here. If the Father disciplines you, don’t let Satan go. Yeah. See, you messed up. You’ll never amount to nothing.

[00:30:33] Now. You did all this wrong. You did all that wrong. God could never use you. But actually, if our Heavenly Father corrects us, it’s evidence of our salvation.

[00:30:45] If the Holy Spirit doesn’t convict us of our sin, then are we really his? You see how that works? A lot of it’s. Oh, no, I don’t want to be disciplined. Well, I don’t either, really.

[00:30:56] But when I hit Him, that gives me assurance that I’m His child and that ought to give us comfort there even. And when I fall, even when I sin, god has promised me he’s going to correct me. He’s going to get me back in the right path to doing the things that I should be doing. And I ought to take heart in knowing, just like I did my Heavenly Father. I know he loved me and I know he wanted what best for me.

[00:31:23] That’s why he disciplined me. I didn’t learn that till an older age, but at a younger age, I thought he hated my guts. But the older I got, the more I understood. My Father did that because he loved me so much. Your heavenly Father loved you so much.

[00:31:40] You’re his child, and if he disciplines you, though it may not be fun for a while, you can take heart in knowing you’re his child and he loves you that much to do that. So even discipline from God can be encouraging for us for the moment.

[00:32:02] Let’s see, I missed verse ten then for they discipline a short while. I think I got that. Now let me go back to verse ten. For they discipline us for a short time as it seems best to them talking about earthly fathers. But he disciplines us for our good, that we may be shared, that we may share in his holiness.

[00:32:26] God never disciplines us because he’s mad at us. God never disciplines us because he’s disappointed in us. God is not disappointed in us. Like I said, God knew you were going to sin before you ever sinned. There’s no surprises with God.

[00:32:43] What he wants when we do sin, to come to Him with a broken and contrite heart and confessing our sin, which means just agreeing with God, that was wrong. I shouldn’t have done that. I shouldn’t have acted that way. I shouldn’t have done those. Things.

[00:32:59] So he never disciplines us because he’s mad or disappointed. God’s discipline us to conform us into the image of His Son. He wants what’s good for us, what’s best for us, what will help us to be more like His Son. And then verse eleven. For the moment, all discipline seems painful rather than pleasant, but later yields the peaceful fruit of righteousness to those who have been trained by it.

[00:33:31] Once again, I’m thank God that I have a Godly Father that raised me in a good Christian home. And I know many didn’t have that and haven’t experienced that, but God blessed me with that and I’m very thankful that because I know I could have been just like many people that didn’t have a good Godly Father. But for the time when my dad was banking my behind, I thought, how could he hate me so much? But after I understood why he did what he did and that what I did was wrong, then he was looking out for my best interest and because he loved me. And I would go back to Him at that and apologize or make it right with Him and I could crawl up in his lap and he just love on me.

[00:34:25] That’s the peaceful fruit of righteousness. This talking about when God disciplines us, it’s because he loves us and we’re his child and he does those things and it’s not fun, it’s not easy, it’s not good. But when we come to that place of understanding exactly why he did that, why he brought it, boy, you could just crawl up in the lap of Father God and cry, abba Father, and just have that sweet fellowship with Him.

[00:34:58] Yes, we will spend eternity with our Heavenly Father who loves us so much. So therefore, because you understand that you’re his child and he loves you and he’s disciplined you to be in the image of His Son, wants what’s best for you. Therefore, lift up drooping hands and strengthen weak knees, make straight the path for your feet, so that what is lame may not be put out of joy, but rather healed. In other words, what is broken will be mended. Those broken fellowship, not relationship, but fellowship would be healed.

[00:35:42] That we would get right back into the full fellowship and love of our Heavenly Father. And knowing that you just lift your hands to Heaven and praise God that you have a Heavenly Father, you may never experience an earthly Father that loved you that much, that would care for you that much, but you have a Heavenly Father that does. And because if you understand that rather than going out defeated, messed up again, I’ll never amount it no, just praise God that he loves you enough to do those things to bring you back in the right path, and that ought to make you just raise your hands to Heaven and praise his holy Name. It had to strengthen us to know that when I fall, he’s there to pick me up. When I get out of line, he’ll straighten.

[00:36:33] He’ll get me back on the path. He’ll fix those things that are broken and make them right again. Now, I want you to understand something here, that our discipline is what makes us stronger. And sure of our calling is sure of that. We’re assurance of our salvation when we’re disciplined by our Heavenly Father.

[00:36:56] Like I said, if you’re not his child, there’s a good chance he’s not going to discipline you. But if you are, he will. Now you understand the difference between discipline and punishment. A lot of people think when we mess up, oh, God’s punished me. No, God’s not punishing you.

[00:37:13] God punished His Son on the cross on your behalf. That punishment means that someone had to pay for this sin. Punishment is having to pay for a wrongdoing. Discipline wants to make you better. I used to go out west a lot and go elk hunting in the Rocky Mountains.

[00:37:37] And being what they call a flatlander here in Georgia, those high altitudes and steep mountains used to get to me big time. And I would spend months before that running and had a backpack on my back. I didn’t throw off that weight. That easily dissents me, but I carried a backpack to get used to it. And I was disciplining my body because I knew of the high altitude and the mountains to come.

[00:38:05] I knew what my body was going to have to go through, and I had to prepare for that. And if I didn’t, I wasn’t going to do well. So that’s discipline. My body at the time thought I was trying to kill it, running around and doing all the exercises and trying to lose weight. And it wasn’t fun, but I was preparing for something bigger and better down the road.

[00:38:26] It’s the same with us. When God disciplines us, he’s preparing us for something better. Punishment is to pay for something wrong, and Jesus paid it all on the cross. It is finished. There’s no other payment to be made, unless you reject Jesus Christ and he’s free guilt of salvation.

[00:38:47] Then there’s punishment for eternity in hell. So difference between discipline, punishment, discipline makes us better. Punishment says you have to pay for wrongdoing. God always disciplines his children, not punished. So we ought to take comfort in the Father’s discipline.

[00:39:06] Whom the Lord loves. Verse six he disciplines. So that verse in Matthew seven. I can’t remember the verse exactly, but art for me. You worked in one of niquity I ever knew you.

[00:39:21] I feel pretty sure he knows me because he has taken me to the woodshed a lot of times. So it was assurance of my salvation that I’m His child and that he loves me. So whom the Lord loves, he disciplines. Therefore, we have hope in this discipline. I hope that’s clear to everybody in understanding.

[00:39:42] Sometimes I like to just pause here for a minute. Is there any questions or everybody good to this point if I was in a real classroom setting, but we’ll keep going on unless somebody has something. If you do have any questions, just put them in the chat and I’ll try to answer them as we go as pertaining to our study tonight. So verse 14 strive for peace.

[00:40:09] Strive for peace with everyone and for the holiness without which no one will see the Lord. Strive for peace. As Christians, that’s what we ought to be doing, striving for peace. You see all this bickering and fussing and arguing back and forth in all the world and people just getting mad at each other sometimes. I just look at that and it’s not my place and I’ll never judge anybody if they’re saved or not.

[00:40:38] But boy, you just got to wonder sometimes that some people just seem everywhere they go, all they do is called strife and frustration. This verse here says, Strive for peace. That’s what, as Christians, we should be doing with everyone saved, unsaved brothers and sisters in Christ especially. These are fruits of the Spirit. One of the fruits of the Spirit is peace.

[00:41:04] Christians want peace with others more than conflict or to be right. I don’t see a person with a good Christlike attitude that just wants to go around being right all the time. They just always got to be right.

[00:41:22] There’s been so much stuff that I just absolutely know was wrong and against the word of God, and I just have to follow the lead of the Holy Spirit. And a lot of times he’s judging, shut up. It’s not going to change anything, not going to make anything right. You don’t have to prove you’re right or what the Bible says is right. I’ll make it right in my time.

[00:41:42] Sometimes I do chime in and try to help them to understand and see the truth. But if they won’t see it, I kindly back out and say, okay, you have it your way. If the Holy Spirit can’t convince you, I can’t convince you. I would rather live in peace than conflict. I would rather have that peace than to just point out a point that I write all the time.

[00:42:09] This is evidence of true salvation. That God disciplines us and that he loves us and they loves us and therefore disciplines us is evidence of our salvation. And the very act of just wanting to live in peace with all people is more evidence of true salvation.

[00:42:31] So verse 15. See to it that no one fails to obtain the grace of God, that no root of bitterness brings up and causes trouble, and by it may become defiled.

[00:42:47] Fails to obtain the grace of God.

[00:42:51] This isn’t losing your salvation. The Bible tells us we are to forgive others. As Christ has forgiven us, he’s forgiven us. Don’t fail to understand God’s grace in this area. Don’t let a root of bitterness and unforgiveness and resentment and hatred and hurt.

[00:43:15] Don’t let those come up that they would take away your joy, that they would cause you to live a life miserable, unforgiveness, doesn’t hurt anybody but you. I’ve known many people just mad, mad, mad, mad at somebody unforgiveness. And the person they were so angry with had no idea. But that person lived their life in unforgiveness and misery over something they did years ago. And the other person didn’t even have any idea about it.

[00:43:48] But that’s just I’ll digress from that. But another example of that, if you all go all the way back to Cain and Abel, god told Cain pretty much the same thing. Don’t fail to obtain the grace of God through a root of bitterness that will spring up. See Abel in Genesis four, verses four through eight, it says, And Abel, he also brought a Firstling of his flock and the fat thereof. And the Lord had respect unto Abel and his offering.

[00:44:21] And we talked about this last week that Abel offered his offering by faith where Cain offered his by the fruits of his labor. But it’s interesting to me even from that the conversation between God and Cain will go on down. Verse five, Genesis four. But unto Cain and his offering, he had no respect. And Cain was very wrought and his countenance fell, bitterness began to grow.

[00:44:51] He was angry about how God had accepted Abel’s and not his, and pride was swelling up. I can see him saying, I’ve worked my hands off to grow these fruits and these vegetables that I’ve offered to you and you like his. But he just went out and killed the lamb and shed his blood. And you like that better than mine. He didn’t do any labor for that.

[00:45:14] It didn’t take anything for Abel to do that. But I worked so hard to get there and you’re happier with his than mine. And that caused bitterness to grow within Cain. And then the Lord said in verse six of Genesis four and the Lord said to Cain, why art thou wroth and why is thy countenance falling? If thou doest well, shall thou not be accepted?

[00:45:39] In other words, I think the verse where there is first a willing mind, it is accepted. I almost wonder sometimes would Cain’s offering, though not as good as Abel’s because it wasn’t through blood, would he have God met Cain where he was? Had his heart been right? It was a heart condition that Cain had a heart issue and it was just manifest in this problem. But he said, Why are you so wroth?

[00:46:11] And if you would have done well, if you’d lose this bitterness, would it not be accepted? And if thou doest well, if thou doest not well, sin lith at the door. In other words, if you don’t take care of this bitterness and this resentment that you have toward your brother and me about this issue. It’s going to get worse. And that’s true with us.

[00:46:33] That’s why it’s so important for us to deal with our sins and our frustrations because it’ll manifest and it’ll grow and one sin causes another sin until we’re in a big mess. We see that here in this illustration, this conversation between God and Cain. And unto thee, going back to Genesis one and unto thee shall be his desire and thou shalt rule over him. And Cain talked with Abel, his brother and it came to pass when they were in the field that Cain rose up against Abel, his brother, and slew him. This all started with act of bitterness and resentment toward his brother till it manifests so much to well, he killed his own brother.

[00:47:20] Now he’s committed murder.

[00:47:25] He’s committed murder and it all began with bitterness. So he said, don’t let a root of bitterness spring up in you and to take away your joy and all those things that God has for you. Verse 16 that no one immoral or unholy like Esau. He sold his birthright for a single meal. For you know that afterwards when he desired to inherit the blessing, he was rejected for he found no chance to repent though he sought it with tears.

[00:48:05] Now, we all know the story of Esau and how he sold his birthright for a morsel or a bowl of potted or stew or whatever soup he was so hungry and he offered him this and he sold his birthright for a bowl of soup, basically. And as he grew older and he understood what he did and the importance of this birthright, when he grew to maturity, he understood what he’d done and what he was given up. We read this story in Genesis 27 where Esau did that what Esau didn’t have was a change of heart. The ESB says no chance to repent. Again, I like the King James, no place of repentance.

[00:48:55] In other words, there was no true repentance in the art of Esau over what he had done. He just wanted the blessing. He just wanted the blessing from the part. Right? But he wasn’t sorry for what he did at the time.

[00:49:09] It was no Godly sorrow, as we see and explained in two Corinthians seven nine through ten that there’s a Godly sorrow and there’s a worldly sorrow. Worldly sorrow is basically sorrow. They got caught. But a Godly sorrow brings repentance, brings a change of heart toward sin and toward God and makes us turn from one direction to the other where worldly sorrow is just yeah, I just kind of wish I hadn’t done know, I’ve straightened this out kind of thing. It’s more of a they sorry they got caught.

[00:49:46] This was where Esau was at. He was sorry that he did it but it didn’t change his heart about it at all. See, the unsaved just want to satisfy their desires, wanting to do nothing with Jesus and the salvation he gives. But when eternity comes, when their time comes once, the diet after that the judgment, oh boy, everybody wants heaven. It’s interesting to me that just about every funeral I go to, all this was a great person, and they did this and they did that, and they’re in heaven with the angels now.

[00:50:21] And another angel gained his wings. By the way, angels don’t have wings that I know of. Now, there are some creatures around the throne of God that have six wings, but I don’t believe the ministering angels even have wings. But that’s a whole nother story. But you hear that a lot.

[00:50:39] They gain their way and that’s comforting to them at the time. But the truth is, not everyone that dies goes to heaven, not everyone that reject the birthright. What’s the birthright nowadays? It’s being a new creation to be born again. You reject Jesus Christ and live your life any old way you want to with no repentance and no change of heart toward him.

[00:51:09] And then when you get on your deathbed, you go to heaven. Then everybody wants to say, oh, but I want the blessings of heaven. Well, that’s not the way it’s going to be. And we see this in the example of Esau, that there was no true repentance in him for what he had done. His heart was still hard.

[00:51:28] So there’s no blessing unless there’s a new birth or a birthright. And this is the example that I believe he’s giving here. So everybody good at this point. I feel like I’ve been talking and talking and talking, and we’ll get through this in here. Verse 18, he gives another example of where we’re at today, giving it to these Hebrew listeners as they go through this.

[00:51:56] This is another story, an example they would very much understand and they would very much grasp. The old to see you have not come to what may be touched, a blazing fire and darkness and gloom and Timbus. Now, I like the other versions a little better, that you have not come to the mount. It says in the King James, I’m trying to get that up here. For you have not come into the mount that might not be touched.

[00:52:33] The NASB says, you have not come to a mountain. What is he referring to? He’s talking about Mount Sinai. And understand this, mount Sinai is the place of the law. You remember, that’s where Moses went up and got the Ten Commandments.

[00:52:48] That’s where he received the law. And no one was to touch the mountain. No one was supposed to go up on the mountain. Sinai was a place of the law. He says, you haven’t come to that mountain.

[00:53:02] We have not come to that mount that can’t be placed. And he goes all the way back to Exodus 19, verses ten. Well, 19 through chapter 20 through 21, we see all this that he’s talking about here, and the sound of a trumpet and the voice of whose words made the hearers beg for no further message to be spoken. So when Moses went up on the mountain, then he come back and he was given instructions of you can’t do this, you can’t do that. Don’t touch the mountain, don’t that they’ll surely die and they’ll be stoned and they hurt so much.

[00:53:38] That all we can’t take anymore. This is too hard for us, he says, for they could not endure the order that was given. Verse 20 if even a beast touched the mountain, it shall be stoned indeed. So terrifying was the sight that Moses said, I tremble and fear. Again.

[00:54:00] You can go back to Exodus 19, verse starting around verse ten, and go all the way through 20, chapter 20, verse 21, and read this account. But I want to point out chapter 20, verses 18 and 19. It just really brings out what he’s talking about in Exodus 2018. Now, when all the people saw the thunder and flashes of lightning and the sound of the trumpet and the mountain smoking, the people were afraid and trembled, and they stood afar off and Moses and said unto Moses, speak to us and we will listen, but do not let God speak to us lest we die. They were terrified at this place.

[00:54:46] They were terrified at Sinai. And he says, you’re not come to that kind of mountain. That’s not where we’re at today. God gave the Law showing us his holiness and what he demands from us as far as holiness, or what he demands for holiness of which none of us could ever do, none of us could ever keep the Ten Commandments as God or the Law as God had demanded it. It was impossible.

[00:55:20] God gave that Law to tell us that I am a sinner. There’s no way I can meet your standard of perfection or holiness. I need a savior. And the Law always just points us to Jesus Christ, the One who did accomplish that, who did fulfill all the Law, who did it all perfectly in My behalf and went and hung on a cross and shed his blood as the perfect Lamb of God, the sacrifice that takes away the sins of the world. He says in verse 22, but you have come to Mount Zion.

[00:55:54] Where is that? That’s where Jesus was crucified on the cross. You come not to a place of the law, but a place of grace. You come to a place of mercy, into the city of a living God, the heavenly Jerusalem. And two inaugural are the angels in festival gathering.

[00:56:13] This place where salvation was brought and complete, where God’s grace and love was poured out on all men and all women for all eternity on Mount Zion, he said, that’s where we’re at. That’s where we came. And to the assembling of the firstborn who are enrolled in heaven and to God and to the Judge of all and to the spirits of the righteous made perfect. This is Mount Zion. Mount Sinai is where we’re told we’ll never meet the standard of God holiness.

[00:56:47] Mount Zion, and says, come unto you all that labor and heavy laden, and I will give you rest. I give salvation, I give pour out my love and my grace and my mercy at Mount Zion, because of Jesus Christ and what his finished work on the cross, this is where we’re at today. We’ve come to that place, we’re no longer under the law in verse 24 and to Jesus, the mediator of a new covenant and of the sprinkling of blood that speaks a better word than of Abel. Again. Going back to Abel.

[00:57:25] Remember when Cain killed Abel? And what did God tell? Blood? His blood cries out for revenge, for justice. Abel’s blood cries out for revenge, for justice to be done because of what Cain did.

[00:57:45] But at the cross, at Mount Zion, at the cross, Jesus blood cries out for God’s mercy and forgiveness. Father, forgive them, for they know not what they do. Man, that’s awesome stuff right there. When Cain cried out for revenge, Jesus cries out for mercy and forgiveness. Verse 25.

[00:58:07] I’m trying to not get too excited here. You all not preach at you. But this Hebrews, as I’ve said, is just goes deeper and deeper and deeper in so many things to grasp a hold of than our understanding of who Jesus was and what he did for us on the cross. Verse 25 see that you did not refuse him who speaks. Who is this for if they did not escape when they refused him?

[00:58:37] Who warned them on earth, much less will we escape if reject him who warns us from heaven. What in the world is he talking about? We’re not come to Mount Zion as the law. We’re come to grace at Mount Zion and mercy. And he says, don’t refuse the Holy Spirit to lead you to that.

[00:58:57] Don’t refuse Jesus who cries out, I love you, I died for you and the Holy Spirit’s working in you, the calling of the Holy Spirit. Don’t refuse those things. And then he goes back, says if they refused Moses, the one who walked on earth, it told him to stay away from the mountain lest you die. And if they touched the mountain, even an animal, if it touched the mountain, would die. And they suffered great judgment because of their disobedience.

[00:59:31] Well, by Moses, he says, how much more would we judgment would there be if we reject him who warns us from heaven? The Holy Spirit. Matthew 1231 through 32, wherefore I got too fast on that. Matthew 1231 through 32 wherefore I say unto you all matter of sin and blasphemy shall be forgiven unto men, but the blasphemy against the Holy Ghost shall not be forgiven unto men. And whosoever speaks against the Son of man, that’s Jesus, it shall be forgiven him.

[01:00:10] But whosoever speaks against the Holy Ghost, it shall not be forgiven him, neither in this world, neither in the world to come. So the rejection of the Holy Spirit, of his calling, the blasphemy of the Holy Spirit, that’s the only one we can do today is to reject the Holy Spirit. To say, you’re a sinner, you need a savior. Jesus. Is that savior?

[01:00:37] He died for your sins on the cross. Do you accept that free gift of salvation? You say no, that’s blasphemy of the Holy Spirit. And if you reject that to the point of dying, rejecting that, there will be no forgiveness for you in this world, knowing the world to come.

[01:01:03] So he’s making a strong statement here, there, that we’re not at Sinai, we’re at Zion, where grace and love pours out. Please don’t reject that. Don’t reject him who calls you. Don’t reject those things that the Holy Spirit is convicting you of and showing you of. Verse 25 26 and at that time his voice shook the earth, but now has promised, yes, once more I will shake not only the earth, but also the heavens.

[01:01:41] So we see it on Sinai, where the earth shook and all that. And I think, too, a lot of the judgment of God upon disobedient people, and it shakes the earth. He’s promising here that one day not only will the earth be shaken, but the heavens also. We kind of see this in Hebrews one. In the very beginning, he says hath in these last days spoken to us by his Son.

[01:02:11] That’s the one that warns from heaven the Holy Spirit. And his Son that warns us from heaven who hath appointed heirs of all things by whom also he made the world, who being in the brightness of his glory and the expressed image of his person, the expressed image of God the Father and upholds all things by the word of his power. His word is powerful. When he hath by Himself first our sins set down at the right hand of the Father, you reject that his Word is powerful. Remember that phrase there?

[01:02:48] Because he goes on to say and then sort of reiterates and brings out what he’s talking about yet once more indicates the removal of things that are shaken, that is, things that have been made in order, that the things that cannot be shaken may remain.

[01:03:09] I believe that’s a promise, a future promise of coming yet once more while I shake the earth, and not just the earth, but the heavens. So if he’s talking about once more what was the first time in my mind and where I go back to the days of Noah, jesus talked about this. As it was in the days of Noah, so will man be eaten and drinking and be merry. And destruction comes quickly, as in the days of Noah, god destroyed all evil from the earth. The next time this just happened on earth, but the next time he’ll not only shake earth, but he will shake the heavens to remove all evil.

[01:03:54] And we see that in Revelation 613. It says the stars of heaven fell upon the earth even as the fig tree cast her untimely figs when she is shaken of a mighty wind. We see heaven and earth being shaken. We see Satan being cast down and into the bottomless pit or bound for 1000 years at this time. But in Revelation 1919 through 21, they said I saw the beast and the kings of the earth and their armies gathered together to make war against him that sat on the horse that’s Jesus, and against his army and the beast was taken.

[01:04:34] And with him the false prophet that was wrought miracles before him, and which he deceived them that had received the mark of the beast and them that worshipped his image, they were both cast alive in the lake, the fire burning with brimstone. And the remnant were slain by the sword of him that set upon the horse, which sword proceeded out of his mouth. You see the power of his word, the power of the word of God, the power of Jesus words to bring judgment, to shape not only the heavens, the earth, but the heavens also. We see this I believe he’s talking about yet once more I’ll do this. And I think that’s what he’s referring to here.

[01:05:21] When Jesus comes on the white horse with his armies and he defeats Antichrist and the false prophets and all those who took the mark of the beast and he casts them in the lake of the fire and Satan is bound for a thousand years, we see heaven and earth being shaken. I believe that’s what he’s referring to. There a shaking to take away those things. We can also compare this to know in going back to our discipline, sometimes God shakes us up a little bit, doesn’t he? He takes away those things that we put our faith in, those earthly things that we put our faith in.

[01:06:04] So we look to the heavens. So we’ll have a faith in him that remains forever. So maybe a little extra sermon in that message too. But I think primarily he’s talking to what I was telling you, the first part. But we can apply this also to us.

[01:06:21] Sometimes we’re shook up a little bit, but it’s for our good because he loves us to take those things that we prop up against here on earth and put our faith in him alone. Let me go on to verse 28. And therefore let us be grateful for receiving a kingdom that cannot be shaken, a heavenly kingdom that lasts forever. And thus let us offer to God acceptable worship with reverence at all looking unto Jesus alone. He’s the author and the finisher of our faith.

[01:06:58] Not the church, not. A preacher, not a Sunday school teacher, not a great TikTok guy. I love how Mike always said, don’t put your faith in me. I’m just a man preaching the gospel. Though true or word, him and JD.

[01:07:13] Both are the same way. Don’t put your faith in me as a pastor. I tell my church, I got you for 30 minutes. There’s no way in this world I can convince you much of it. All I can sort, I say wet your whistle on Sunday morning.

[01:07:27] I can wet your whistles. About all I can do and hope that you go home and study and dig and learn more. Even in these studies, as deep as I’m trying to go, all I can do is give you a glimpse. But the Holy Spirit, I pray, will take this and impress it upon your heart. And you want to grow in a deeper relationship and understanding with Jesus Christ and to have that fellowship that I keep telling you about.

[01:07:54] But don’t put your faith in things that can be shaken. Put your faith in the word of God that remains forever in God’s promises, that remains forever in Jesus, who says, I am the same yesterday, today and forever. Put your faith and trust in Him. He is our example.

[01:08:17] Our hope is in Jesus, not in the law is what he’s telling them there. Not in temporary things and material things, but in Jesus our Savior. And then in verse 29, he says, for God is a consuming fire. Revelation 20, verse nine, verse comes to mind when I read that. And when they went up on the breadth of the earth and compassed the camp of the saints about and of loved city.

[01:08:46] Now this is after the thousand year reign at the end of that and they came up against satan is released and he comes against all the saints to come up one last revolt. Satan takes one last stab at trying to defeat Jesus and this is what he’s talking about here. And fire came down from out of heaven and defied them all. Now the first time Jesus comes and defeats the Antichrist on a horse with a sword of the word of his mouth and defeats all them. And this time when the revolt comes, god just fire comes down from heaven and devours them all.

[01:09:26] So our God is a consuming fire. He makes all things right. He will make things just and right in his way and in his time. No longer how long he carries. So in this and our hope is in Jesus Christ and not in law.

[01:09:47] Anything other than the furnished work of Jesus Christ will be consumed by fire. So put your faith in Him, never wavering from it. Don’t let those things that so easily beset you, those sins so easily beset you, don’t let those things distract you. Keep your eyes on Jesus, the Author and the finisher of our faith, so that is verse or chapter twelve. Let me change gears here a minute and go to 13.

[01:10:17] We’ll try to fit that here in the next 40 minutes, if that’s all right with you all. You can keep going. Any questions or anything at this point while I’m getting drink water and getting this new page up, everybody understanding that and it’s clear. I think we might finish this tonight, guys. It’s about 14 hours, 15 hours of studying, so if there’s nothing else, we’ll go on to chapter 13.

[01:10:53] So he starts out chapter 13 let me go. I’m sorry, I got out of that too quick.

[01:11:05] Oh. So chapter eleven after after he tells them that the law is complete in all the temple worship and all the faith. Now as Christians chapter eleven, we walk by faith, not by the law. Chapter twelve, our hope is in Jesus Christ, not the law. Now chapter 13, let the love of Christ flow, not the works of the law.

[01:11:27] That is his emphasis here. He starts out in the very first verse. Let brotherly love continue. Keep on in these things by faith and our hope, but above all that, let love be preeminent in all that we do. Isn’t that what’s taught in just about all the New Testament, one Corinthians 13?

[01:11:53] You can do all these things and all of that, but if you don’t have love, you might as well just have an old wood and spoon beaten on the bottom of a trash can, which some people do that pretty good, but you’re tinkering, so you’re not making anything worth doing. You’re nothing without love. Here again in chapter 13 of Hebrews. Let love continue. Let brotherly love continue as Christ loved us.

[01:12:23] Let that love flow through us to others. Do not neglect to show hospitality to strangers, for thereby some have entertained angels unaware. That’s interesting there to me, I don’t know, I feel like there might have been a couple of times in my life I just, wow, was that an angel? Because somebody just came out of nowhere, made a big impression on me and I really just had this feeling of love and warmth and encouragement and just wanted to hear what they had to say. And I don’t know if that’s it or not, but it just is almost a feeling of reverence kind of thing.

[01:13:05] Almost know. I know we’re not supposed to worship anything but God, but I hope you understand what I’m saying. I’m in the presence of an angel. John even did it, he wanted to go bow down and worship the angel. Oh no, don’t you worship me, worship God.

[01:13:21] But even in the presence of an angel, I think we sense a presence of goodness and of love. And maybe I’ve experienced that a couple of times in my life, I don’t know for sure. I know JD. Or not JD. But Mike and Justin have talking about the guy that was sitting across the street as they did street preaching.

[01:13:49] And they wondered was that an angel unaware? I don’t know. Could have been. But I do believe that angels are among us kind of thing. I believe sometimes God sends angels on our path for as ministering angels to direct us, to guide us, to give us encouragement.

[01:14:08] And they could be angels unaware, I don’t know. I do know that we shouldn’t worship them. They’re God’s messengers there to help us, to encourage us, to give us direction. So just remember that those you come across, you don’t know who they may be, it could be homeless person, it could be whoever, but it may be a messenger of God. Keep your eyes and ears open to the message of God’s words.

[01:14:37] That’s what angels are, are ministering spirits that bring encouragement and messages from God. And when he sends those, I believe he really wants to get our attention. So I’ll go on from that. Remember those who are in prison as though in prison with them. And those who are mistreated, since you also are in the body, those who are being persecuted, maybe good in prison for their faith.

[01:15:04] Remember those, love those. Love those people as if you’re in prison too with them, that you could be there too. They’ve been mistreated. You could been mistreated. Pray for those because you are the body of Christ.

[01:15:23] When one member of the body, he says suffers, all the members suffer. Love those. Pray for those not only the household of God, but to all you come in contact, who knows who you’re going to come across?

[01:15:41] I don’t know. It could have been an angel. Could be someone that’s unsaved, that just needs to see the love of Jesus. They’re kind of in prison, they’re in bondage to sin. As Christians we should show them love and kindness.

[01:15:59] I’ve always said that when someone comes across your mind and I don’t know if you’ve ever done that, I’m sure you have. I think most people do. And I tell my people at my church that when you think of me now, I don’t mean this egotistical at all, but if I ever cross your mind, would you just stop and say a prayer for me? Because I firm believer that God puts people in our mind. He’s done it with me and JD and done it with me and Mike and some of you and Chris.

[01:16:30] And I know he’s going through some things and I’ll be just in the morning drinking my coffee or something and somebody will come to mind and I just feel like it’s very important at that time. Lord, I don’t know what’s going on, I don’t know where they’re at. They’re being tempted, they’re going through a struggle, they’re going through a trial. But you placed them on my heart and I want to lift them up to you. I want you to encourage them, to strengthen them, to help them in whatever they’re doing.

[01:16:58] And I think that’s very important to us as Christians as you think of those who are fighting the fight every day and going through struggles and if God places them on your heart, just stop it. It’ll have to be a long, drawn out prayer, but just a prayer that God help them, encourage them. He puts people on our hearts for a reason. Absolutely. So don’t forget that when you think of somebody, don’t just yeah, Brother Kenny, he’s all right.

[01:17:27] That Hebrew study, I wish he’d done this or wish he’d done that. Maybe he talks too much, he’s got his old country accent. No, I don’t think about all that stuff. Just say, Lord, I don’t know what Brother Kenny’s going through today, but I lift him up to you. He may need encouragement, he may be struggling with a sin, he may be this, he may be that.

[01:17:49] But will you just have your perfect would you show him your perfect will and way and help him to do it today? I would. Thank you for it and I will do the same for you. That’s how we show that we love one another in the body of Christ. We love one another.

[01:18:05] The best thing you could ever do for a person is pray for I firmly believe that. Anyway, I’ll keep going. I’m running out of time. Verse four. Let marriage be held in honor among all and let the marriage bed be undefiled, for God will judge the sexuality, immoral and adulteress.

[01:18:32] This era is talking about the ultimate act of love in a marriage. If you understand marriage, it is a perfect picture of Christ and his bride, of how Christ gave Himself for the Church, for his body, and as a husband and wife, come together as one and love one another. And they have this intimacy with one another. That’s why marriage is so important to God. That’s why he puts such emphasis on the marriage, but those outside the marriage.

[01:19:12] That’s why he doesn’t want you going outside the marriage and doing immoral things and being adulterous because it’s a picture of Christ and his bride of Christ and his church. And he wants that as Christians especially, to be a good example to the world of who he is to us. So keep your life free from the love of money and be content with all that you have, for he has said, I will never leave you nor forsake you. Here. I think this goes back to chapter twelve.

[01:19:50] And he says, put away all those weights that so easily beset us.

[01:19:57] The love of money can be a weight that so easily if you get so tied up. And I want more. And I want more. And I want this promotion. I want to make more money.

[01:20:06] I want a bigger house. I want a better car. I want a boathouse. I want a boat. I want this, I want that.

[01:20:12] You’re all wrapped up in I want and trying to get more, and there’s no contentment. See, I preached on this lesson, learning to be content with what God’s given you. God will never leave us or forsake us. He will supply all of our needs. Not wants, but needs according to his riches and glory.

[01:20:40] He promises us that. And if my Heavenly Father thinks that I need it, I can be rest assured he will supply it. But if I don’t need it, he won’t supply it. And I should be content with that. I told him that.

[01:20:54] There’s a lot of people out there wanting to win this lottery and win all these things. Oh, if I just had the lottery, I would be sick for life and I would be okay. That’s not contentment. God’s probably trying to spare you from a lifetime of struggle and misery by not letting you win that lottery. To be honest with you, if you’ve ever studied those who win it, five or ten years down the road, they’re more broke than they were before they won the lottery, and they get in a world of mess.

[01:21:22] And he’s saying, don’t love money. Be content where you have which what you have, because your Heavenly Father will supply all you need. He’ll never leave you. So our goal is not materials or riches. If it is, then our focus is not on the Lord.

[01:21:42] He’s quoting here, I’ll never leave you, nor forsake you, just so you know. Deuteronomy 31 eight. So he says in verse six, we can confidently say, the Lord is my helper. I will not fear. What can man do to me?

[01:22:00] Goes back again, reminding the verse of Jesus says, don’t worry about the one that can destroy the body, worry about the one that can destroy both the soul and body. So whatever man can, even if I die, I have heaven. Paul says in Corinthians, I know all things will work tonight, even if I die, but my helper is the Lord. I don’t have any fear of death, because after death, I have eternity with God, my Savior. And he’s quoting here, psalms 118, verses six through seven, the Lord is on my side.

[01:22:37] I will not fear. What can man do unto me? The Lord taketh my part with them that help me, therefore shall I see my desire upon them that hate me. So now, verse seven, remember your leader in this last chapter. He’s just going through all those we should love and be kind to and respectful to and give honor to, as examples of our Christian walk, those we’re living by faith in Jesus Christ, then we don’t have the love of money.

[01:23:10] We’re content with what God supplies for us. We love the brethren. We love those we come across. And he’s saying, Remember your leaders, those who spoke to you, the word of God, in particular, those who share the word of God with you. Love them because why consider the outcome of their lifetime and intimidate their faith.

[01:23:34] Those guys are concerned for your soul enough to share the good news of the gospel with you. Remember those love, those that put much time into that and that care for that. That’s their objective.

[01:23:52] I think this verse, honestly, as a pastor, just doesn’t terrify me. But just boy gives me a sense of, wow, a burden almost that irresponsibility that God puts on me because he just thank goodness he helps me every day do this. But I don’t take being a pastor lightly at all. I don’t take these Bible lessons that we’re having here on this lightly at all, because a verse like this right here consider the outcome of their way of life and imitate their faith. Oh, man.

[01:24:37] That to me, just a leader or pastor ought to live a life acceptable to others because they’re watching. They’re watching how I respond. They’re watching how much I love. They’re watching how much long suffering I have, the life that I live. Wow.

[01:25:02] That humbles me. But I honestly, wow. I don’t feel I can even measure up to that. But it also yeah, the way I do my tongue. My brother, like many of you, become teachers knowing that you should receive a stricter judgment.

[01:25:23] Absolutely. That’s why I say I don’t take this lightly at all because I don’t answer to you. I have to answer to God. And I know my God is a consuming fire, but thank God I’m covered under the blood of Jesus. But I don’t know how to explain the burden that I feel is on me sometime as a pastor or just teaching here.

[01:25:51] Boy. Lord, I pray often. Don’t let me lead anybody astray. Don’t let me say something that’s not true. Don’t let me confuse somebody with the truth of your Word.

[01:26:02] Let it be clear. Let the Holy Spirit speak and not me, because if it’s me talking, I’m going to mess up the Holy Spirit’s talking. I can rest assured and be confident in him. But I think we could apply this also to our parents. Parents, you have little children watching you.

[01:26:21] You’re leaders. You’re to show them the way of the Lord. You’re to raise them in the nurture and admission of the Lord. You’re their spiritual leaders. They’re watching your way of life and they’ll imitate your faith.

[01:26:36] I had a great blessing day. My boys love to ride these side by side. I have to tell you this story because I had a proud daddy moment today. My son was out with his little seven year old son riding these razors, and he’d got him a little one, and they were going through some pretty difficult time. They came up to one place and the seven year old and his little small razor thing, little 200 or something, he’s like, Daddy, I don’t know if I can do it.

[01:27:03] I’m scared, I’m scared, I’m scared. I’m scared. And my son, this is my proud daddy moment. My son just encouraged and said, you can do it, my son. I got all the confidence in the world of you.

[01:27:19] And he said, let’s pray and ask Jesus to help you get through this little area. And my little seven year old grandson prayed and asked God to help him. Or six year old grandson asked God to help you go through it. That about didn’t mean much to you, but oh, my goodness, what it meant to me as a daddy that I had taught my children to depend on the Lord, to trust Him no matter what he does, no matter where, even if he’s driving a razor through a difficult train. Now he’s showing my little grandson, oh, it’s awesome to me.

[01:27:55] We’re leaders to our children. We’re leaders to our congregation. Some of you are leaders on here. People are watching. And when they do things like that, what a blessing, what a joy to see them to follow in the footsteps of Jesus, to trust Him and depend on Him and put their faith in Him no matter what.

[01:28:16] Because of verse eight, jesus is the same yesterday and the day forever. That’s what I told y’all. My job is to point you to Jesus Christ, not to me, because Kenny’s going to fail you. Mike’s going to fail you. JD’s going to fail you.

[01:28:31] All these big name people, their preachers are going to fail you. But if we all point you to Jesus, he will never fail you, because he is the same yesterday, today and forever. He will never leave you nor forsake you. He will never fail you. You’ll never come away from Jesus disappointed if you put your faith and trust in Him, being content in Him.

[01:28:56] All this is good stuff here. Let me move on. Do not be led away with divers and strange teachings. For is good for the heart to be strengthened by grace, not by foods which have not benefited those devoted to them. What’s he talking about here?

[01:29:14] Focus on the grace of your salvation, not on religious rituals, not on legalism. You see so much of that on TikTok. All this legalism legalism. You’re saved by grace, lived by grace, people. And if you can get that in your heart and in your mind, what joy is in your heart from that?

[01:29:35] Knowing that the finished work of Jesus Christ on the Cross, and his grace and his grace alone each me, day in and day out. And I know that I’m his child and he loves me. And if I get off the path, he’s going to lead me gently back and he’s going to restore me into that fellowship. It’s not about religious rituals of what I can do and how I can try to please God. The only thing I ever did to please God was to believe on His Son and accept Him as my personal savior.

[01:30:08] That’s the only thing you’ll ever do to please God. And I put my faith and trust in Him. I got to keep going. I got to stop preaching and keep going. I’m telling you, Hebrews, those who say, oh, it’s not written to us.

[01:30:22] There’s no gift. Well, you are missing some great rich stuff in the Word of God. Verse ten, we have an altar from which those who serve the tent have no right to eat. He’s talking about the tabernacle, the tent of Moses. Those who serve day in and day out and doing all these tabernacle.

[01:30:45] He says, stop being Hebrews. Stop all those sacrificial things. Those who do that, they’re not even in the family of God. If that’s what they’re dependent on for salvation. They don’t even have the right to sit at Jesus table.

[01:31:03] I got to keep moving for the bodies of those animals whose blood is brought into the holy place by the high priest, whose sacrifices were sin are burned up outside the camp. They would take these sacrifices and burn them up outside the camp. So Jesus suffered outside the gate in order to sanctify the people through his own blood. You know, when they would take that sacrifice all the way back in the tabernacle of Moses, all the way back in the Old Testament, and they would take that sacrifice after they got the blood, and they would finish consuming it. Outside the camp was a picture of Jesus being taken outside the city, all the way outside the city on a hill called Galgotha, where he hung and died and bled for the sins of the world.

[01:31:54] Outside the city was a picture of Jesus, even in that. So Jesus suffered outside the gate, this time about outside the gates of the city of Jerusalem, where he went out on Mount, on Zion and died for the sins of the world, to sanctify the world or the people through his own blood. Therefore, let us go to Him outside the camp and bear the reproach he endured. Let us go out to be with Jesus, to identify with Him. Don’t be led away with these false teachings and these doctrines of legalism and the law and the sacrifices.

[01:32:38] He says, stop doing all that and identify with Jesus Christ. So therefore, let us go to Him outside the Cab. Verse 14 for here we have no lasting city, but we seek a city that is to come. This is what we talked about a week or so ago that Abraham looked for a city, a heavenly city, a heavenly home. We know this place is not our home.

[01:33:09] Heaven is our home. That’s why we never find real contentment here, because we have a home in heaven eternal. We’ll never find true satisfaction or peace here on earth, but we find it in heaven, in our heavenly own. Verse 15 through Him, then, let us continually offer up sacrifices of what? Praise to God.

[01:33:32] Not sacrifices of blood and bulls and goats, but of praise to God that is the fruit of the lips that acknowledges his name. Praise the Lord our God, for his goodness, for his mercy and his grace, for this offering of sin in our place. Stop being Hebrew, stop doing these sacrifices and look to Jesus, the author and finisher of our faith. Do not neglect to do good and to share what you have, for such sacrifices are pleasing to God. What sacrifices?

[01:34:05] Blood? Bulls and goats? No, to do good to those, to love one another, to care for one another, to present it, as in Romans twelve one, to present our bodies a living sacrifice to God, not blood of bulls and goats, a life that says, father, your will, not mine. I put my full trust and faith in you, Lord, as Isaiah said in Isaiah, chapter six, here am I, send me that’s, presenting your body a living sacrifice. And by the way, if I haven’t told you I believe Hebrews twelve, one and two people look at that as a command that you present your bodies a living sacrifice unto the Lord, unto God, only acceptable, and they go as a command.

[01:34:55] I say it’s a way of living the Christian life. That’s the only way you can do it. You get up every morning and say, like Isaiah said, Lord, here am I, send me that’s, presenting your body a living sacrifice. And if you go on down through that, when you have that kind of attitude of here am I, Lord, you deal with me today what you would have me do. Then he gives you the gifts, then he gives you the faith, then he gives you, as you read on down through Romans twelve, those things to equip you and to do, those things he wants you to do.

[01:35:29] For Philippians 213 for it is God who wills, and to do his good pleasure. It is God. All he wants us to do is say, here am I, Lord, send me oh boy, let me keep going, I’m about out of time. Verse 17 obey your leader, submit to them, for they are keeping watch over your soul. And as those who have to give an account this is what Chris put up while ago in James, what he was talking about, the more severe punishment or judgment, I guess you could say, for those who want to be leaders.

[01:36:11] Where those have to give an account, I have to answer to God. Those pastors have to answer to God. You don’t feel like you have to get a pastor on the right path. And I know sometimes you have to take care of business and things that ought to be taken care of. But if a pastor or Sunday school teacher, deacon, just a Bible teacher, Mike, JD, me, anybody gets out of line, you can rest assured God will take care of us and will put us back on the right path.

[01:36:39] He will take care of his children, and he especially takes care of those that call themselves preachers and teachers. We give an account to God. Let them do this with joy and not with groaning, for that would be of no advantage to you guys. There’s a lot of times I’ll tell my wife, get up on Sunday morning, I don’t want to go. That preacher is boring.

[01:37:02] And she has to remind me I’m the preacher.

[01:37:07] There are times that I’m just being just transparent, as they say, and openly I struggle. Sometimes I’m not sure if I can do this right, and I just don’t know. And there’s just times that I just like to go and listen to a good preacher preach, but I got to do it. And those times that I feel that way, it’s usually the times God really wants to speak through me the most, and I have no idea what he’s going to do. Those are often the sweetest times of fellowship and the sweetest times of worship that we have in our church.

[01:37:43] When Satan is working so hard to distract me and I find that those are the greatest blessings to me, when I can just with joy say, I’m going, no matter what, to serve my king. And no matter what happens, I hope that the Lord lets me point people to Jesus. That’s what he says in verse 18. Pray for us. We go through these struggles too.

[01:38:10] We have these pray for us, for we are sure that we have a clear conscience. Desiring to act honorably in all things. I urge you to more earnestly do this in order that I may be restored to you sooner. Pray for us. I want to come and have fellowship with you and commune with you and just have these wonderful times of worship together.

[01:38:36] I want to do those things, and I’m doing it with a clear conscience. A lot of people think this is why Paul wrote it, because this sounds very much like Paul and what he talked about in two corinthians to those for it, that I’ve got a clear couch, that I’m doing this out of a pure heart. I’ve accepted no money from you, but it’s because I love you that I’m coming to do this. Paul loved the Jews. He loved them so much he wished that he could die and go to hell if they could be saved.

[01:39:09] That’s pretty bold. But he was expressing his love for the Jews. And a lot of people think just some statements like, this is exactly why Paul wrote this book. We don’t know. It doesn’t say.

[01:39:21] But he’s a very strong pin. Let me keep going. I’m about out of time. I urge you more earnestly do this in order that I may be restored to you soon. Again, very familiar to the kind of language that Paul would write as he’d write to the letters to.

[01:39:39] The churches that I want to come be with you, be with you soon. He says. Now may the God this is his closing statements that he’s making now. Verse 20 of Hebrews 13. Now may the God of peace, who brought again from the dead our Lord Jesus, the great shepherd of the sheep, by the blood of the eternal covenant, he’s closing in a prayer for them.

[01:40:05] Equip you with every good, everything good that you may do his will. Do his will. What’s that? Love one another. Love Him.

[01:40:18] The fruits of the spirit. Obey. Trust Jesus Christ, your personal savior, and obey him. Love one. We obey him by loving one another and loving God working in us that you may obey to do his will.

[01:40:35] Working in us that which is pleasing in his sight, doing God’s will through how do we do those things? Through Jesus Christ, to whom be glory forever and ever. Amen. So he starts out verse 20. And then it’s almost just like a peace, a prayer for them that this is the way you live.

[01:40:59] Not through temple worship and sacrifices and eye priest and all that legalistic system, but you’re out of a heart of love, a broken and contrite heart and a heart of love, because you love God, you love His Son, and you love one another. You want to do his will and you can do his will because he is working in us to do what’s pleasing in his sight. Again, I told you one of my favorite verses that gives me so much liberty is Philippians 212 through 13. Wherefore beloved, as many as obeyed, not as in my presence only how much more in my absence? Work out your own salvation.

[01:41:46] Not work for, but work out. Learn to trust him. Learn to live in faith, learn to love Him. Learn to put your hope in Him with fear and trembling for God, which worketh in you both to will. So God even gives me the will to want to do, and he gives me the do to do his good pleasure.

[01:42:11] He gives me both. If I just say, here am I, Lord. Send me. God’s not through with you yet. No matter how far Satan may take you, just keep trusting Him, keep looking to Him.

[01:42:30] Let me do the final verses here. I appeal to you, brothers. Bear with my word of exhortation for I have written to you briefly this is 13 chapters or this letter that he felt that he had written briefly to them but was so rich and so probably took us what? 14, 15 hours of studying well, of just going through it. And I had countless hours of studying to bring this out.

[01:43:01] But he calls it briefly that you should know that our brother Timothy has set release at whom I shall see you if he comes soon. Now, a lot of your translations, I think, the ESV and some of my things Will Say written by Timothy because it mentions this is about the only name here of the New Testament that’s mentioned, I guess, is Timothy. So some think Timothy wrote it, but he’s actually making a reference. You should know that our brother Timothy has been released and with whom I shall see if he comes soon. So he’s talking about Timothy?

[01:43:50] I don’t know. I guess Timothy could it doesn’t say, but this sort of seems OD to me that it was written by Timothy when the writer of this is talking about Timothy. So there could have been dual. Maybe this part was part that was sort of touched in here as a final greeting. I’m not for sure, but this is the final greeting.

[01:44:12] Greet all your leaders and all the saints. Those who come from Italy send you greetings. We know Paul was in Rome and Italy, so it could have been Paul. Grace be with you all. So the old thing is to know the superiority of the person of Jesus Christ, to put our trust in his superior priesthood, to live in the superior principle of faith, to build your life on the things of heaven that will never be shaken.

[01:44:46] Be confident. Jesus saves to the uttermost. Jesus is enough. You Hebrews. Stop acting like Hebrews and trust him.

[01:44:59] Amen. Amen. And we got six minutes to spare. That concludes our study in Hebrews. Any questions, thoughts, comments?

[01:45:13] With our few minutes, we have I’ll stay as long as you want to stay. I hope this has been helpful to you, but most of all, I hope this has pointed you closer to Jesus Christ, to your walk with Him, to understand all that he’s done for us, that we are complete in Him, in his finished work on the cross.

[01:45:42] Amen. I needed this, too. You all don’t understand a lot of times preachers, teachers and all that, we often get way more out of it than you do. And a lot of times, when I’m standing and preaching and everybody thinks I’m preaching to them, I’m actually preaching to me. God speaks to me just as much as he does you.

[01:46:04] Thank you, Chris. I hope you’re doing good again. We’ll have all of them on audio recording.

[01:46:17] Why can I never think of that word? It’s in the library, in the depository. I got it that time.

[01:46:29] Thank you. Praise the Lord for that. Tammy, thank you very much. All glory to God.

[01:46:37] I will if people want me to do some more, I don’t mind doing studies. I love it. I love trying to help people to understand and me trying to help people understand, I get more understanding, too.

[01:46:58] Ashley, I’m glad you’re here. Thank you for helping all those kept putting up verses and all those things. Awesome job. Thank you so much for doing that and keeping up with all my I know I throw out a lot of verses sometimes, but like I said, I like for you to see God’s word, not what’s getting.

[01:47:19] Yeah, I think that JFK depository. Okay, I got it. But as I said, if you want to go back and catch up, hebrews is a book that you have to not only take in context of the chapter or certain set of verse, but I think you have to understand in the whole context of Hebrews because he begins at ground level and he keeps building and building and building and building and building until chapter ten, verse 26, it says, guys, if you don’t do all that, if you reject that, there’s nothing else left. And you got to accept the sacrifice that Jesus made and his finished work. If you don’t do that, there’s nothing else left.

[01:48:06] And then he goes on to tell them how to live that Christian life now that it’s all gone.

[01:48:16] Thank you, Maris. Good to have you here tonight. We’re all the chain. What is this? A little screen pop up on my phone.

[01:48:27] I don’t know what that was. Any more comments?

[01:48:35] Thank you, Chris. Hope you’re doing well. It’s been very hectic for me for the last couple of weeks and I’ve missed your studies on job. But now that I got this done, maybe I can get more in with chris is doing a study on job and some other studies get involved with those things. They’re good studies as well.

[01:49:03] Let’s close the word of prayer real quick and wouldn’t hang out long as you want to, but I’ll just close the word prayer. Father. We just thank you again for your word. We thank you for Jesus in those precious blood, his finished work on the cross that in Him and through Him we can do all things. We are complete in him.

[01:49:21] We just help you pray, Father. Just help us to live by that faith that you want us to have, to know that you love us unconditionally and to love one another. We just thank you and praise you for that. Thank you for all that have joined in the study. Lord, I pray now that the Holy Spirit would just impress upon them Your Word, to see the truth of Your Word, to know those and impress upon their heart in their mind that they see and hear the truth of Your Word and to be doers of that Word.

[01:49:51] Thank you and praise. Unite for all Your goodness to us in Jesus’name I pray. Amen.